Located in Comana, Memorial House „Gellu Naum“ is actually the summer house of the great surrealist poet, which is kept as it was back in time when Gellu Naum spent summers here.
This place was for writer withdrawal into an own universe of creation, isolation from the external social and political context of the era (1968). The house bears  today anonymity. However, inside, you can see his world the reminiscences, evidenced by the collection of small objects and spaces organization.
The assembly built,  consists of two parts: cultural foundation space and rooms for accommodation.
He was born on August 1, 1915 in Bucharest; he was the son of the poet Andrei Naum, killed in action in Marasesti and of his wife Maria Naum born Rosa Gluck.
Philosophy professor, translator due to his the need to earn a living (Diderot, Stendhal, Hugo, Dumas, Jules Verne, Gracq, Prévert, Char, Kafka, Beckett), Gellu Naum (1915 – 2001) remains one of the great surrealist writers of Romania. His writings universe bear the mark of a surgical clarity amid in the middle of the absurd. His singular poetic universe and the force of his talent will bring a well-deserved, but late recognition.
In 1948 and 1949, Gellu Naum wrote the poem philosophically and esoterically tinted,  Calea șarpelui, experience that will mark his definitive style. In 1950s and 1960s, published several books of children's literature (such as the acclaimed book "Carte cu Apolodor"), and also proletcultist literature (such as the volume "Soarele calm" or the novel for youth "Tabăra din munti"), the latter two are not listed in the most official bibliographies. However, Gellu Naum a continued to write secretly, surrealist poems (eg, the poem Heraclit in 1958). During this period, he lives more from the translations of authors René Char, Denis Diderot, Samuel Beckett, Stendhal, Franz Kafka, Julien Gracq etc.
Along with the period of detente regime, he starts to publish his drawer poetries in 1968, with volume Athanor. With this volume and the next (Copacul-animal, Tatăl meu obosit etc.), Gellu Naum succeeds to provoke some reactions among critics, but in the same time is recognized as an important writer but only after the Zenobia novel's publication (1985). In a few years, many translated editions of Gellu Naum poems occur.  Also after 1990, he is invited to keep public lectures in Germany, France, Switzerland Holland and Switzerland. His work is translated into major international languages by prestigious publishers, being crowned with significant prizes. In 1995 ha was for one year DAAD scholarship in Berlin.
Like André Breton, Gellu Naum remained faithful until the end to surreal way of living and writing poetry, which proves that surrealism choice for him was not an conjectural option but the expression of the authentic self affirmation.

