Across de Valley, on the Broad Lane were the ancient Gaujani's village limits. Here also was the old church of the village,  with over 300 years that lasted until the winter of 1962, when the roof itself was damaged -  it crashed due to snow. 
This church has served the  worship until 1988 when the villagers have built the spruce wooden Church from Deal, which served the worship until 1950, when it was demolished, because the wood charred was placed green in the walls, and the walls were plastered with fresh lime mortar. 
On the same foundations, instead of the old church, whose patron was Saint Nicholas, was built between 1950-1962 the today churh. The foundation stone was laid on May 18, 1950 date. 
The church was consecrated at Pentecost in 1962 by P.S. Gafton Joseph, the Bishop of Ramnic and Arges. This office for worship was built on the initiative of parishioners under the guidance of the Parish Council led by the priest Ion Ungureanu and the reeve Nicolae Telebus. The priest never had the happiness to hold the church consecration, he died near the sanctification day. They say that craftsmen would have taken measure after him and had placed it in the church's wall. 
Painting and decorating was done under the pastoral and perseverance Pc. Pr. Ion Tomescu. All unskilled labor and material shipments were made by village congregation. 
Church of Gaujani is entirely built from Oltenian old brick, both interior walls and vaults. It is cross-shaped  with two towers, located above the vault in the narthex and naos. The towers are built and covered with iron. The walls have a thickness of 60 cm. 
The church cemetery is located in the eastern part.
Also in the east of the church, at the entrance to the cemetery is a high cross (2010) in honor Găujani villagers who died defending their country.
Găujani Church's lands were gradually regained after the revolution: 7 hectares of pasture and 27 hectares of forest.
State of liturgical space and objects of worship is good, the church being endowed with religious objects for its good functioning (8 rows of garments for priests, 1 row coverings for the Holy Table 8 coverings for the holy vessels.

