Inspired by the model of a Greek temple and having on the facade the symbol of the Roman eagle,  the Athenaeum “Nicolae Bălănescu” was built in  n just a few months in 1940 by the philanthropic gesture of the lawyer Nicolae Bălănescu, who decided to demolish his house and with materials obtained thus to built the  atheneum. 
Although the building does not keep many elements of the original structure, the southern façade has a Neoclassic portico with steps, which is the main entrance and the eastren façade has an porch incorporated  of the Bălănescu house.
Nicolae Balanescu donated it to the municipality aftre the power was taken over by the Communist Party.
Once owned by the state, under the administration of the National Directorate of Cinematography, the building has reached an advanced state of degradation until 2000. Afer 2005, the building was included on the List of Historical Monuments of the Ministry of Culture as a cultural heritage of Giurgiu and so were initiated extensive rehabilitation and modernization.
Re-inaugurated in spring 2009, after extensive renovations and landscaping - at the initiative and with the great efforts of the City Council and Mayory of Giurgiu the Athenaeum „Nicolae Balanescu” is currently the place where culture and art can manifest in favorable conditions..
Under the administration of Cultural Local Centre "Ion Vinea" , the  Athenaeum meets an old desires of Giurgiu, jewelers to have a  proper hall where arts servants may manifest in their fullness of talent and the beauty lovers, constituted in viewers, to be able to go after.
Încă de la spectacolul prilejuit de inaugurare, pe scena – Since the show occasioned by the inauguration on stage - modern and very stylish - have evolved not only local artists, but also the brand names of Romanian music and international representatives of the Philharmonic "George Enescu" Bucharest, Theater of Opera Bucharest, of Philharmonic Ruse - Bulgaria.
Also Athenaeum halls hosted literary evenings, scientific symposiums, theater evenings, exhibitions and conferences - satisfying the most varied tastes and cultural inclinations.
     Athenaeum halls Capacity:
– Auditorium –317 number of seats 
– sală de conferințe –90 number of seats
– Ground floor foyer
– Floor foyer
Athenaeum in Giurgiu is even more important since the headquarters are the first provincial branch of the Romanian Athenaeum in Bucharest. It was inaugurated in 1940.   
Currently, Nicolae Balanescu Athenaeum in Giurgiu is a cultural institution of local interest here are being organized various events such as literary evenings, scientific symposiums, theater evenings, exhibitions and conferences..

