The house was built in the year 1926 by the one who also gives its name, Albert Theiler, on the ruins of the former Metropol Hotel.
Hotel Danubiu, which became Metropol was built around the year 1850.
In May 1864 Cuza was accommodated here, in his path from Giurgiu – Cernavodă – Kustendje – Constantinople. The hotel had two entrances: at the Ovidiu street and Elena street and it was the shelter for the diplomatic representatives and Russian militaries, having at the ground floor the famous coffee shop High Life, where moderated Al. Macedonski (1854 – 1920) the meetings of the magazine “Literatorul”.
In 1880, in the backyard from the back of the building there functioning the lithography and the packing factory of the photographer M. R. Baer, and in the ‘20’s, at the ground floor, there was found the most matched tobacco debit from the Capital, which offered, besides the “specialties C.A.M.”, “accessories and gifts for the smokers, products from the brand DUNHILL and others, with established fame.”
Between the years 1894 and 1896 the hotel was renovated, modern refurnished and reopened.
In those times, here there was organized the annual ball, café concert and dancing evenings.
The historical data mention the fact that here there functioned in 1913 the cinema Venus, and in 1916 it is said that it was “a prostitution nest”.
The Metropole Hotel was demolished in the years 1930 together with the Danube Bank (the former Nation – R), with the Inn Zlătari and with the Palace Jockey – Club for enlarging the Royal Palace Market and enlarging Victory’s Road.
Albert Theiler was part of the management of the Jewish community following the elections of the 7th of May 1922, elections made under the presidency of the mayor assistant Gr. Roșu. Therefore, Theiler was named vice-president.
The historical documents show the fact that Theiler also owned Regina Hotel, which became in the inter-war period one of the most well-known accommodation places.
The façade of the building is more serious, having a marking horizontality.
The principal entrance is special because of the columns and piers, which stand out, it is also very spacious, and denote a simple terminal decoration.
The pilasters with a composite capital frame the central windows, and the ones from the two floors. 

