Cathedral "Saints Peter and Paul" is an Orthodox  place of worship in Constanta, located in the the peninsular city, below the Ovidiu Sqtare, in front of the Archdiocese of Tomis.  The building dominates by its  monumental architecture, the entire Southern cliff area of ​​the city. The cornerstone was laid down on 4 September 1883, during the Metropolitan Iosif Gheorghian.  The consecration of the church was made on 22 May 1895. The construction plans belong to the famous Alexander Orăscu and the Head Architect of the workings was Carol Benis. The contractor of the business was Henri Guaracino. In the park surrounding the cathedral is an archaeological complex înwhere elements of the ancient city of Tomis are identified.
The building, in Byzantine style, of pressed brick, imposes through its monumental facade and the 35 m high tower. The painting is restored in 1959-1961, by Gheorghe Popescu and Niculina Dona- Delavrancea, the frescos are in Byzantine style, with a Romanian grace-note. The sculpture is well represented  at the iconostasis and pews, as the chandeliers and candlesticks (bronze-brass alloy) designed, also, dby Ion Mincu and worked in Paris.
The Cathedral was built between 1883-1895, in the style of the old architecture of the Romanian country, led by architect Carol Benesch, the interior plans were   made by the architect Ion Mincu, and the opening took only on 22 May 1895 due to a non-conformism painting, which had to be restored by George Demetrescu Mirea. By the year 1925, he served as a parish church, and between 1925-1950 was used as a church of the former Episcopal bishops of Tomis. On 3 August 1941, due to Soviet bomber the altar, the iconostasis with  icons and paintings were damaged and partially destroyed Re-consecration of worship settlement was made in 1951 by His Beatitude Patriarch Justinian and by His Grace Bishop Chesarie Păunescu.
Between 1978-1981, the furniture in oak carved by the great architect Ion Mincu plan, including the iconostasis have emerged in Paris in the workshops of André Dorea. On 9 November 1975, the Diocese of Lower Danube is ranked as the Archdiocese, the title of Archdiocese of Tomis and Lower Danube residing in Galati,and in la Constanța shall be the residence of the Bishop Vicar.
An dear gem  for worshipers of this place for worship is the holy shrine with the relics of St. Great Martyr Panteleimon brought from the Middle East and donated to omis Episcopal Church  by the priest Dimitrie Popescu in 1931. Following the discovery of the relics of Sts Epictetus and Astion (august 2001), the inhabitants of Constanta and all its Cathedral  worshipers ae blessed by these relics of great value, which protects this place for worship. Also,  the Cathedral shelters holy relics of St. Auxentius and St. Simeon Stalpnicul and miraculous icon of the Mother of God, icon painted in Durau Monastrey after  the model of icon brought from the Holy Mountain.
Beginning of the new millennium brings a reorganization of religious life in Dobrogea. In this reorganization is also included the Archdiocesan Cathedral, which on since 1st of December 2001 is also an archbishop's church, monastery nature.

