The edifice has been built between 1933 - 1936 following the project of the architect George Matei Cantacuzino. One notices the tendency to treat volumes, with horizontal registers alternating flat surfaces with glazed areas marked here and there by vertical accents. The building recalls the silhouette of a liner, architecture which has been preserved from its construction until now.
Belona Hotel, ​​like an ocean liner breaking the waves, symbolizes the progress and the power of man over the sea.
It was completely renovated during 2008.
Belona Hotel has 4 floors, modern elevator, main restaurant, self-service, bar, parking, terrace, own central heating, access stairs,  corridors, ramp for the disabled people.
The hotel has a number of 67 rooms: 9 double rooms with matrimoniale bed, 23 rooms with double bed, 25 rooms with two beds, bathroom with tub and partial sea view, 6 suites formed of living room with sofa and bedroom with matrimoniale bed,  bathroom with tub, without balcony, without sea view, 4 studios consisting of a very large room, equipped with matrimoniale bed, sofa and two armchairs, bathroom with tub, balcony and sea view.
All meals are served in Swedish buffet system in Belona restaurant,  this having  a spectacular view to the sea. The restaurant inside the hotel is classified under the category 3 *** and has a capacity of 100 seats in the lounge, which is equipped with air conditioning and 80 seats on the terrace found at a distance of 30 meters from the beach . The bar has a capacity of 20 seats and is also air conditioned. The hotel is also provided with its own parking.
Belona Hotel is located in Eforie resort, city on the Romanian seaside, on the bank of the Black Sea, in Constanţa county, Dobrudja, Romania, consisting of localities Eforie North, respectively Eforie South. The town was established in 1966 by the  administrative unification of the current component localities. During the 2011 census it had a population of 9473 inhabitants.
Eforie North,  the second largest resort, is a resort with spa permanent regime. In the south-west side is situated  Techirghiol lake,  known for the curative properties of the mud, so that the recreational tourism is mixed with the spa.
The resort is situated on the coastal strip between Techirghiol Lake and the Black Sea, towards Agigea on the north,  and South Eforie on south, about 15 km from Constanţa.
Eforie South, the south part of the city, was established by Ion Movilã in 1899, when he built a hotel called Bãile Movilã (Movilã Spa). In 1928, the baths were renamed Carmen-Sylva, after the nickname of Queen Elizabeth of Romania. In 1950, after the instauration of the communist regime, the name of the city was changed again into Vasile Roaită, the name of a worker from Griviţa workshops,  who distinguished himself during the strike from 1933. In 1962, the city was renamed Eforie South. In 1966, the city Eforie was created by joining the two localities,  Eforie South and Eforie North. Formally, Eforie South is the administrative center and  Eforie North is the dependent locality.

