The amusement park from Neptun – Luna Park is an amusement park full of lights and colorful games. There are available trains and carousels for the little ones, but also the installations for the adults (centrifuge, roller – coaster, hammers, etc.). Also, a big wheel offers an amazing panorama over the resort and over the city of Constanța.
Neptun is a component locality of the municipality Mangalia from the county of Constanța, Dobrogea.
Neptun is one of the six resorts from the Romanian sea cost situated in the area of Comorova from the range of the city of Mangalia. Olimp, whose construction was finished in 1972, represents the northern district of the Neptun resort.
Among the recreation possibilities there is numbered a drive-in cinema, the Summer Theater, the Bazaar from Neptun, the landing stage, the polyvalent sport fields, two mini-golf fields, an amusement park, facilities for the water sports and a holiday village. The restaurants offer a rich variety of autochthon culinary dishes, specialties made of fish and folkloric programs. There are diverse possibilities for practicing the water sports on the sea or on the lake Neptun.
The strong point of the resort is represented by the beach, La Steaguri, considered by some of the tourists as being the best arranged beach on the sea cost, having fine sand and a fine entrance in the sea with sandy bed.
Here there can be treated degenerative rheumatic, inflammatory and diarthritic diseases, post-traumatic states, diseases of the peripheral nervous system, dermatological diseases, respiratory disorders and of another nature.
The factors of natural cure are the rich marine climate in saline aerosols and solar radiations, the colorful sea water, with sulphur, sodium, magnesium and hypotonic (the mineralization level: 15, 5 g.), the fountains of meso-thermal sulphur waters (22 – 27 degrees Celsius) and the vegetable mud extracted from Lake Techirghiol.
Neptun is considered a departure point in order to visit different areas of tourist interest such as: the tour of the Romanian sea coast, trips in the Delta of Danube, trips to the ruins of the former citadel Histria, the VIIth century b. Chr., vineyards from Murfatlar, the monument Tropaeum Trajani from Adamclisi, the Dendrology park (cedars, cypresses, pines, oaks, teils, birches, etc.).

