The reservation Fântânița – Murfatlar has been declared protected area by Law No. 5 of the 6th of March 2000 (regarding the approval of the Land use plan of the national territory Section III – protected areas) and is extended on a surface of 66, 40 hectares.
The natural area represents an area with inclined relief, circulated through various brooks, with a fauna characteristic to the arid areas (Dobrogea steppe) and flower elements specific to the Black Sea, Balkan, continental, under Mediterranean or of the Euro-Asian habitats.   
Fântânița - Murfatlar presents a ground with a rising flower and fauna diversity, at the level of the species, as well as at the level of the ground ecosystems. 
The flora is constituted by a forest vegetation, grass pastures and Black Sea – Sarmatian herbaceous species.
Species of trees and bushes met in the reservation: downy oak (Quercus pubescens), browny oak (Quercus pedunculiflora), hornbeam grove (Carpinus orientalis), Turkish morello (Prunus mahaleb), prunus (of the species Prunus tenella), and wig tree (Cotinus coggygria).
At the level of the grasses, there are met a vast variety of plants, among which: chufa (of the species Carex halleriana), cornflower (of the species Centaurea trhracica and Centaurea rutifolia), scabious (Cephalaria uralensis), spring adonis (Adonis vernalis), wild garlic (of the species Allium saxatile), bird hajma (Allium flavum), adonis (Adonis flammea), a species of wild asparagus (Asparagus vericillatus), golden crest (Galatella linosyris), China Pink (of the species Dianthus dobrogensis and Dianthus leptopetalus), dittany (Dictamnus albus), feather grass (Stipa capillata), spurge (Euphorbia nicaeensis), mottled iris (Iris variegata),  jasmine (Jasminus fruticans), feather grass (Stipa ucrainica) or wild armirai (Carduus hamulosus).
The reservation’s fauna is a characteristic one to the steppe area and is represented by various species of mammals, birds, insects, reptiles and frogs.  
Mammals: the spotted polecat (Vormela peregusna), the ground squirrel (Spermophilus citellus), hopping steppe mouse (Sicista subtilis), Romanian hamster (Mesocricetus newtoni).
Birds and insects: the common buzzard (Buteo buteo), the butterfly (of the species Lycaena disappear, Colyas myrmidone), cricket (Paracaloptenus caloptenoides)
Reptiles and frogs: the snake (Coluber caspius), the big dragon (Elaphe sauromates), the dried turtle of Dobrogea (Testudo graeca), the tree green frog (Hyla arborea).


