The church with the titular saint of Saint Nicholas of the congregation Mircea Vodă, with the shape of a cross, was been built-up between the years 1909 – 1911, by the support of a committee composed of 30 people , having as initiator Ilie Bigan.
The church was consecrated in the year 1911 by his Eminence Archbishop of the Bucharest Conon Arămescu Donici. In the year 1962 the grand dome was repaired, and in the year 1971 it has been redone the church’s roof. The earthquake of 1977 produced some damages, which is why in the year 1979 there have been executed, according to the documentation approved by the Saint Archiepiscopate, general reparation at the church’s covering, chalking works of the exterior and the oiling of the church’s pedestal.
Between the years 2000 – 2010, at the exterior, the old painting has been taken off and repainted and it has been realized for the first time the exterior painting of the church. 
The church with the shape of a cross, is built from brick, on a foundation of a macadam brick from Dobrogea and it is covered with plates. It has two domes at the entrance of the narthex and a big dome at the nave, each provided with a metal cross. Having the dimensions of 28 m length, 6 m width, and 12 m at the apse, with a height of 8 m and 16 m at the Pantocrator, the church gives a feeling of warmth, of closeness. The church’s porch has a rectangular shape, with an opening on the facade. The narthex is covered with a spherical crown. The altar is semi-circular at the interior and hexagonal at the exterior, covered with a spherical crown and separated by the nave by the linden wood altar screen. The church’s painting has been executed for the first time in oil, in a Byzantine style, in the year 1911, the documents not stating the painter who executed the work. It has been redone in the year 1938 by the well-known church painter and founder of the History Museum from Călărași, Niță Angelescu.
The repainting works of the church were handed over in the year 2004 to the painter Horvath Sebastian Răducu, who was at the time a student at the Faculty of Fine Arts from Iași, in oil, in the Neo-Byzantine style. At the exterior, on all the church’s circumference, immediately after the projecting roof, there are painted medallions with saints.
The congregation has a functional Congregation library. The congregation organizes parish activities with the church-goers, as well as with the students from the congregation. The Mircea – Vodă Congregation has a parish house built in the year 1932, priest being Mihail Tiberiu and having four rooms, of which two are occupied by the Concentration center of the cultural – national patrimony goods from the County of Călărași, comprising icons and old books. 

