The museum was founded in 1970, by the coming of C. Câșlaru from the Museum of Oltenia – Craiova, with a permanent exposition of ethnography.
In 1975 there is realized also the permanent exposition of the history department.
In 1993 the museum receives its actual name.
The museum presents archeology collections: ceramics and tools belonging to the cultures Sălcuța and Coțofeni, objects from the Getic – Dacian era.
There are also exhibited objects of popular clothing from the Plain of Băilești, carpets, barks, ceramics, household objects.
At the founding there is a collective formed by 2 professors, very passionate archeologists, Honoriu Stoica and Voicu Constantin, from Craiova, a conservator – Paula Dora Pascu and a caretaker, Mititelu Ecaterina.
They laid the bases of the museum, they organized the basis expositions and the museum’s deposits where there is kept the patrimony of the two departments. 
After a few years, came Mr. C. Caslaru from the Museum of Oltenia and he continued the started activities, performing archeological diggings in the area of Giurgița and thenceforth bringing his contribution at the development of the two departments.
The history department has archeology collections regarding the primitive cultivation of plants, ceramics and objects belonging to the cultures Sălcuța and Coțofeni, objects from the Getic – Dacian era. 
In the ethnography department there are exhibited objects of popular clothing from the Plain of Băilești, carpets, trunks, ceramics, household objects. 
Currently, in the Plain Museum there are found over 7.000 exhibits from the domains of history and ethnography. The currents name is received in 1993.
Situated in one of the rankest parts of the country, the area in which it appeared the Băilești on the history area which was permanently occupied even in the oldest times, the principal occupations of the first inhabitants being constituted even from the stone era, by the agriculture. The first archeological discoveries which prove the living of the city’s hearth date back from the period of the year 680 – 1025.
As a locality name, Băilești, comes from the name “Băilă”, a front-ranked name of sheep breeders. Băilă together with his own made a wintering layover, years in, years out, in this area and in this way it appeared the village of Băilești. 
The first documentary certification, of the 4th of January 1536 from the times of the reign of Radu Paisie reminds us the fact that Băilești existed even from the times of the reigning of Mircea the Elder (1386 – 1418). 
In the First World War there were sacrificed on the battle field for the reuniting of the bloodline 156 inhabitants of Băilești, soldiers, graded and officers whose memory is honest and recorded by the Monument of the Heroes from Băilești, executed by the sculptor Iordănescu and inaugurated on the 24th of October 1924. 
Like all the Romanians, and in the Second World War, the inhabitants of Băilești were present on the battle field for freeing the country and the definitive victory over the fascism, where there remained 108 of the most courageous sons of the village.
On the 4th of July 2001, Băilești is declared municipality. 

