The monument is built up in the memory of Petre Ivanovici (the 4th of September 1898, Băilești – the 1st of February 1936, Comereva), one of the most known Romanian aviators from the inter-war period. Flying instructor at the Instruction Center of the Romanian Aerial Navigations (military) from Tecuci and the civil flying school of ARPA, he evolved in numerous demonstrations of aerial acrobatics, being of the initial members of the Red Devils.
He takes part at the raid from 1993 of Africa, and at the raid of the 3rd of January – the 24th of March 1935 of Africa with Irina Bumaia. He becomes a pilot of the society SARTA, founded in 1935. The falls piloting a airplane Potez 560 F – AOCD of SARTA, following a mechanic defections, being the first Romanian aviator who was a victim of an aviation accidents, of a civil regular course. 
In the First World War he enrolls as voluntary and he is assigned at the Division 2 – 1 Cavalry, commanded by the general Cleante Davidoglu. Having the degree of cavalry master sergeant, he takes part at the forcing of Tisa and at the charge of the unities of Béla Kun. At the 30th of August 1909, he is part of the 400 cavaliers of the three cavalry squadrons of the Brigade 4 Roșiori, which enters in Budapest under the command of the general Gheorghe Rusescu, and personally assists at the episode of the foot plates put on the tower of the parliament’s building. 
At the ending of the war he retreats with the 6th Regiment of Cavalry at Cluj, where he makes friends with the aviators from the garrison. The pilot Dumitru Maiorescu invites him at the aerodrome Someșeni, where he performs a flight of half an hour with Ivanovici as a passenger, who decides to become an aviator. Fortunately for him, from an order of the Ministry of War he finds out the fact that there are making applications at the Instruction Center of the Romanian Aerial Navigations from Tecuci. He asks to be transferred at the aviation and his request is approved. At the admission he meets Max Manolescu, with whom he will be a colleague. He makes the school on airplanes Spad 13 and Hansa – Brandenburg C.I., having as piloting chief the captain Gheorghe Jienescu. The school instructors were Marin Nicolae (“Power Marin”), Gogu Ștefănescu, Tănăsescu, Tase Rotaru, Pârvulescu, Naidinescu, lt. Ion Ruță („the Nabob”), Ion Dincă („The Old Man”), lt. Radu Rusescu („The Conductor”), cmd. Atanase Enescu („the Buck”) and Captain Constantin Beroniade. He is the first pilot of the promotion 1923 taken at simple, by Jienescu. Being a very good pilot he is kept at the school, like Max Manolescu, as instructor. In 1924 together with Manolescu he is perfected in the acrobatics flight in a stage of three months executed on the airplanes Spad – 13 and Nieuport at Galați in the hunting espadrille of the lt. Traian Pâclea.
The air shows under the form of balloon hunting and fighting simulations were very appreciated by the public. Ivanovici evolves in these, including with acrobatics in formation. The first show of this type is sustained at the 26th of October 1928 on the airport Băneasa, with hunting airplanes Fokker D. XI with engine Hispano – Suiza 8 of 300 HP, head of the formation being Mihail Romanescu, right wing Ivanovici and left wing Valdemar Keller. In October 1930, at the meeting from Băneasa there were used airplanes of the type Havilland Moth, slower and more easily to be followed by the public. As left wing flew Max Manolescu, because of the fact that Keller died in July, at Iași. 

