“Saint Nicholas” church was built between the years 1730 and 1740 under the form of a land cabin, named in a popular way “The suburb from the hill”, because of the Ottoman incursions over the Danube. The place of worship was initially destined for the sailors who used to come to pray at the Saint Hierarch Nicholas, the guardian of the sailors. There are more hypotheses regarding the date at which the church was built over the land. The first says that it was built up from the ground in 1830, when, according to the legends, it was consecrated in the presence of the prince of Wallachia, Alexandru Ghica, and of the well-know prince of the Serbians, Miloș Obrenovici. The other hypothesis gives the date of the construction the year 1853, when the church was also covered with tiles. The construction works would have been finished in 1856 because of discontinuance in the period of the War of Crimea. A few years later, in 1861, the church would have suffered works of extension and heightening, commenced at the initiative of the priest Matei Dobriceanu. 
The church was visited several times by King Carol I, especially during the war of 1877, after which the church remained known under the name of the Cathedral of Independence. His portray is found painted in the narthex, above the principal entrance. Also, even other great personalities of that time participated at the “Te Deum” officiated in this church. Demolished at the beginning of the XXth century, the church was re-built from wall in the actual state at the insistence of Ilariu Marian, a political man from Dolj and mayor of Calaphat between the years 1899 and 1901. The finalizing of the construction took place in 1906, and its consecration, four years later, in 190. Among the principal founders there are also numbered the members of the known family of nobles Marincu, Ioniță and Ștefan (the ones who remained in the memory of the people of Calafat and not only as founders at the superb Palace Marincu), Dumitru Arsenie, Sima Naiculescu, Vasile Mirică, Ioan Drăgulescu and Maria Faranga, but the merit for its built up belongs to the priest Petru Calafeteanu, who fought that in the “Town of Independence” to be a cathedral dignified of the role which it had in the country’s history.
At the middle of the XXth century, the church served for 619 families and 2255 people, besides it functioning a library with 216 volumes, the community center “the Independence”, a school cafeteria (founded in 1937) and the society for mutual help at funerals “the Twinning”. Also in that period, there were collected from the authorities and from the church-goers funds for repairing the church and for the constructions of the church tower and of the congregation house.
The XXIst century brought to the “Saint Nicholas” church numerous restorations and changes. Therefore, after the fact that in 1991 it is finalized the restoration of the painting, in October 2001 took place the re-consecrating of the place of worship. One year later there were initiated the exterior works of renovation of the church and of the church tower, finalized in the year 2005, when his Eminence the Metropolitan Teofan Savu of Oltenia re-consecrated the church. In the year 2010, when there were made 100 years from the consecration of the “Saint Nicholas” Church, the Independence Cathedral and the congregation house were restored and re-consolidated. Also, one year later, it was rearranged the exterior courtyard of the place of worship, being planted roses, as well as different other decorative plants, whereas as in the interior the painting and the altar screen were restored. 

