In the nearest proximity of the market from Calafat, at the intersection of the boulevards Tudor Vladimirescu and Horia, Cloșca and Crișan, it is found the Assumption of Mary church, one of the most representative places of worship from the area.
The church occupies a central place in the municipality Calafat, being situated very close to the Market Calafat, to the School No. 2 Constantin Gerota and to the City Hall Calafat. 
On the old times it was considered to be one of the most important church of the city, the Assumption of Mary Church is part of a triade of places of worships with a specific role in the community’s life, together with the Saint Nicholas Church (the Independence Cathedral) and with the Life-Giving Spring Church (The Greek Church). 
On the ground of a demographic growth from the years 1860 which made that the old place of worship of the Saint Nicholas Church to become scanty, to become imperious the need of building a new church in Calafat.
The first step was made in the year 1867, on the date of the 8th of July, when a report of the urban council recorded the following: “For the new Church, we must take the precautions in order to be started the preparing of the material by any means it would be considered to be necessary, as it is a very urgent matter.”
Responsible for the starting and for the good development of the works was the priest Matei Dobriceanu and the guardians D. Zifca Vîlcea, Mihaela Anastasiu, Tena Strîmbeanu and Dumitru Ungureanu.
The church building, built from wall, was consecrated in the year 1869.
In 1925, the construction of the place of worship was repaired by the efforts and by the contribution of the church – goers.
Around the year 1940, the Assumption of Mary Church served 1116 families and 4862 people. Although in that time it didn’t have a congregation house, the church had a quire and a library with 417 volumes, fact which attracted in this congregation numerous intellectuals from Calafat of the time (the military priest Inochenție Ștefănescu, pharmacist captain Marcel Broscărescu, lieutenant colonel Popa M. Ioan, lieutenants, lawyers and engineers). 
Built about 150 years ago, the church suffered along the time more transformations until the acquirement of the current exterior appearance, but always remained a space of orthodoxy, faith and the spiritual living at the disposal of the people from Calafat.
The last restoration and consolidation works took place in the year 2011, being executed with the help of the Local Council from Calafat.
The re-consecration service was held on the date of the 8th of May, the third Sunday after Easter (known as the Sunday of the Prude Women), being performed by His Eminence, the Archbishop of Craiova and the Metropolitan of Oltenia. 


