The Schina House from Craiova, surnamed the “Little Louvre”, is built at the end of the XIXth century, in a Renaissance style and belonged to the doctor Constantin Schina, about whom it is said that for a period of time he was the only head doctor of Craiova.
Constantin Schina was born in Craiova in the year 1860. His grand-father, also a doctor, was a Greek who came in Romania, professing at the beginning in Râmnicu Vâlcea, then in Craiova. His son and the father of Constantin Schina, was the sub-prefect and head of service at the City Hall of Craiova.
After he attends the classes of the Med School from Bucharest, Constantin Schina becomes an intern at the Civil Hospitals from Bucharest. In 1886 he comes back to Craiova, where he professes as doctor of the Regiment I Infantry and of the penitentiaries Craiova and Bucovăț. In this quality he holds a mortuary speech at the funeral of doctor Panteli Negoescu, doctor of the Regiment I Artillery (Cavalier of the order the Star of Romania and he was a doctor of the Mounted Gendarmes). Registrar at the Philanthropy Hospital, Schina moves from 1891 as resident at the Hospital Th. I. Preda from Craiova (the current section of neuro-psychiatry from the Clinical Hospital of Infectious Diseases and Pulmonology and Phtisiology “Victor Babeș” Craiova). In 1905 he is named general secretary of the Committee of the Medical – Pharmaceutical Circle from Craiova, and starting with 1909 he is chosen vice-president of the circle, together with dr. Vernescu. 
Besides his passion for medicine and science, Constantin Schina was also interested in the cultural – artistic environment of Craiova. Member of the Dramatic Society of Craiova, doctor Schina as part, as president, from the first management Committee of the Philharmonic Society from Craiova, founded in 1904, together with the violinist Valeria Pohl – Graepel (president of honor) and the violinist G. Fotino and G. Vincenz (vice-presidents). 
According to the historical data, the Schina House was sold after 1943 by the descendants of the doctor of a lawyer from Craiova with the name Popescu. In the period 1979 – 1996, in the building there functioned the Museum of Medicine and Pharmacy History “Victor Gomoiu”, founded by prof. univ. dr. Mihail Șcheau on the basis of the “Collection of pharmacy history” organized in 1963 by the pharmacists Gheorghe Cismărescu (1900 – 1964) and Nicolae Zahacinschi (1919 – 1988). The nucleus of the museum, donated by dr. Viorica Gomoiu in 1972, was constitued by the museum pieces gathered throughout the life by the great doctor and historian of medicine Victor Gomoiu. Among the collections of the museum there also were two works of Constantin Brâncuși, ”Ecorșeul” or ”Jupuitul” (one of the four or five existent copies, and the second remained in Craiova, besides the one kept at the National College Carol I) and the bust of general Carol Davila.
After 1996, the descendants of the lawyer Popescu claimed the property right over the building in which the museum functioned. In the year 1998, they won the building in the court, the collections of the museums being evicted. The management of the University of Medicine and Pharmacy from Craiova and of the Foundation “Victor Gomoiu” decided to transfer the collections at the University from Târgu Jiu in order to found a faculty of medicine. The pieces now lie around in the building of the Faculty of Medical Assistance, Dental Technique, Arts and Physical Culture from Târgu Jiu.
Afterwards, in the former Schina House it functioned a research institute. Currently, the Schina House is a private property, hold by the family of the business man Genică Boerică. 

