The Feraru House from Craiova is a historical architecture monument situated near the central area of the city. The house, which belonged to the landlord N. I. Feraru, currently hosts the Social – Human Research Institute “ C. S. Nicolăescu – Plopșor”.
N. I. Feraru was the owner of the domain Verbița from the western part of the county of Dolj. According to the website of the Institute of Social – Human Research, on the 26th of May 1912, he would have requested to the City Hall of Craiova the authorization for building “a house on my property from the 140 Unirii street”. The building would have been built in the period 1912 – 1914, although, on the List of Historical Monuments, it is dated at the end of the XIXth century. The house was built in the style of the French Academicism after the plans of the engineer from Craiova Alfred Vincenz. Former architect of the Museum of Oltenia, Vincenz projected for numerous land-owners from Craiova of that times, bringing its contribution to the edilitary wealth of the town. 
With a surface of 720m2 and four levels (basement, ground floor, floor and attic), the Feraru House is a palatial apparition in the architectural scenery of the Calea Unirii. At the exterior there are remarked the two balconies and the rich ornamentation, especially in the superior part and at the level of the roof with decorative skylights. The entrance is made from the backyard (it doesn’t have an exit facing the street), from where it is entered in the lobby and then, climbing a few stairs, in the interior lobby. The floor is reached by climbing a staircase in the shape of a spiral. At the interior, there stand out of relief the structure and the ornamentations, the mural painting executed by the painter Francisc Trybalski, but also do the furniture and the decorations (the tapestries). The Feraru House was equipped with stoves in a Renaissance style, with sanitary installations executed by Johann Laub and lighting installations executed by the engineer Florea Iliescu.
The construction changed for numerous times the owner throughout the last century. In the year 1919, the immobile was sold to the lawyer from Craiova D. Fortunescy. His descendant, Nicolae D. Fortunescu, sold it in November 1942 to the Ministry of Agriculture and of the Domains, in order to function inside the construction a veterinary laboratory.
Because of the fact that it was considered improper for the Ministry of Agriculture, the former Feraru House was assigned in 1943 to the Ministry of Education.
Further, the building passed onto the patrimony of other institutions, being the head office of the City Hall of Craiova, of the Romanian Society for getting together the Liaisons with the Soviet Union (ARLUS), of the Pioneer House and of the School Inspectorate.
Starting with the year 1983, the Feraru House hosted the branch office of the Romanian Academy from Craiova, currently the Institute of Social – Human Researches “C. S. Nicolăescu – Plopșor”. 

