The building dates back from the end of the XIXth century (approximately 1870 – 1900) and it was built for serve as an apartment for the family Rusănescu. The family Rusănescu was a family of nobles who had their name from the property with the same name from Olt (the former county Romanți) which they owned. Without being part of the great families of nobles from Oltenia, the family Rusănescu was distinguished by a few notable representatives, who occupied important positions (treasurers, bread makers, cavalry commanders), they built up churches and owned properties in the area (Pieleștii de Sus). Also, they became related to other families of nobles, such as the family Pleșia.
In the building constructed by them, there took place some memorable events from the end of the First World War, here being kept an archive of some union organizations from Paris. Moreover, as it stands written on the plate from the entrance in the immobile, “In this house belonging to the family Ștefan D. Rusănescu, there were developed in the years 1915 – 1916 gatherings of the great political men and patriots in order to form the Greater Romania.” In the “Illustrated history of Craiova”, which appeared in Craiova in 1997, it is specified the fact that in the Rusănescu House took place the meetings of Take Ionescu, Vasile Lucaciu, Octavian Goga, Nicolae Titulescu, who coordinated the union actions from Oltenia.
The descendants of the first land owners also used the house with the destination of apartment. After it had been nationalized, the Rusănescu House had diverse destinations, for a period of time here there functioned the headquarters of the football team FC Știința U Craiova (until 2006). After which, in 2009, the immobile made the objects of some actions in the justice, it is now in the property of the municipality and it hosts the administrative offices and the room for celebrating the marriages in the Public Community Service of Personal Records.
The Rusănescu House has a built surface of 579 square meters with a height regime without basement, with ground floor, floor and attic, and an interior yard. The house is a mixture of styles, including characteristics of the styles Art Deco, late or Viennese baroque. At the exterior, it is noticed the rich ornamented face surrounding the entrances, of the windows and of the cornices, with decorative plaster of cement mortar, closed balcony of above the principal entrance and the roof made of plates with luminaries. At the interior, the construction presents decorative panels on the walls and on the ceilings, painted in oil on the wall and oil on the wood at the carpentry, a stained glass at the floor, above the lobby and the stair case, and an accessible monumental stair case through the secondary entrance (from the interior yard).
The house has been restored in the year 1999, through the works executed being redone the interior finishes (the paintings, the structures in golden leafs, the ceilings, the mirror and the lamps from the stained glass). 


