The philharmonic from Craiova, a well-know institutions in the Romanian musical life, was founded in 1904 and brought into existence in 1947 by a royal decree. The activity from present is supported by the Symphony orchestra, the Chamber Orchestra, the Academy Quire and other ensembles.
Approximately 80 professional musicians form the symphonic orchestra. The repertoire comprises masterpieces of the symphonic music, operas, oratories, memorial meals, musical jewelries, arrangements of famous jazz pieces, which cover a big history period, from Baroque to contemporary.
The Symphonic Orchestra was performed by musical personalities, such as: Constantin Silvestri, Mihai Brediceanu, Sergiu Comissiona, Erich Bergel, Cristian Mandeal, Emil Simon, Camil Marinescu, Horia Andreescu (Romania), Alexandr Dmitriev (Russia), Kurt Adler (USA), Wolfgang Grohs (Austria), Carmen morală (Peru), Ivan Marinov (Bulgaria), Andre Neve (France), Stanislav Wislocki (Poland) and collaborated with famous principals such as: Lola Bobescu, Ion Voicu, Valentin Gheorghiu, Eugen Sârbu, Silvia Marcovici, Ileana Cotrubas, Viorica Cortez, Mariana Nicolesco, Dan Grigore (Romania), Pavel Kogan, Igor Oistrakh, Vladimir Viardo, Alexander Slobodianik, Mihail Homitzer (Russia), José Manuel Esteban (Spain), Thierry de Brunhoff, Pierre Yves Artaud (France), Weimar Stanley (USA), Marcella Crudeli, Fausto Zadra (Italy) etc.
The symphonic orchestra was invited in Italy for performing, at the summer concerts, together with Katia Ricciarelli – the famous Italian soprano of the world – and to participate at the “International Courses for the Young Conductors” from Manfredonia, Alessandria (Italy), Corsica (France),” international competitions for the young soloists” (finales with orchestra), in Italy:” GB Viotti "(Varallo)," Rodolfo Lipizer "(Gorizia)," Citta di Cantu "(Como); in France: International Festivals "Les Nuits Pianistiques" (Aix-en-Provence); Opera Festivals from Germany and Italy (Spoleto).
The symphonic repertoire of the orchestra comprises, among others, integral symphonies by Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Schumann, Mendelssohn-Bartholdy, Brahms, Ceaikovski, Bruckner, Rachmaninov; Symphonies no. 1, 2, 4 and 6 by Mahler; Symphonies no. 1, 5, 8, 9 and the Chamber Symphony by Șostakovici; "La Mer", "Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune" by C. Debussy; "Bolero" by M. Ravel; Simfonica  Symphonic Poems "prelude", "Orpheum", "Tasso", "Faust", the Symphony by Liszt; Symphonic Poetries "Don Juan", "Zarathustra", "Don Quijote", "Till Merry Pranks Eulenspiegel", " Death and transfiguration", R. Strauss; "Pasărea de Foc", "Le Sacre du Printemps", "Petrușca" by Stravinski; The concert for orchestra by Bartok.
In 1957, there was founded the Chamber Orchestra of the Philharmonic “Oltenia”, specialized, at the beginning, in promoting the pre-classical and classical music. In our days, the repertoire is appreciably diversified, including, at the same time, most of the contemporary music. The Chamber Orchestra participated at numerous international artistic tours in Italy, France, Germany, Holland, Bulgaria.
The Academic Quire of “Oltenia” of the Philharmonic of Craiova, is one of the most valuable artistic ensembles of this genre in our country, was created in 1953. 

