The immobile, which dated back from the end of the XIXth century, which belonged to the general Simion Stoilov, the father of the great Romanian mathematician Simion Stoilov.
The general Simion Stoilov (1841 – 1901, Craiova) came from a family of refuge Serbians in Romania. After he finished his courses at the Military school of officers from Bucharest (1857), he followed the military career, advancing rapidly: sub-lieutenant (1859), lieutenant (1861), captain (1863), major (1870). Stoilov – the father was made officer during the times of Alexandru Ioan Cuza and he was noticed because of the special military abilities. He occupied the position of lieutenant – colonel at the Regiment 1 Dorobanți (position for which he received the Star of Romania in the degree of Officer), the commander of the Regiment 19 Dorobanți from the county of Romanați and commander of the Regiment 13 Dorobanți. He was also part of the revision council for forming the contingent 1866, being named a recruiter officer. On the 18th (the 30th) of June 1886, in the quality of commander of the Regiment 7 of line regimented at the Cuza Barrack, the colonel Stoilov met with King Ferdinand in order to present him the situation of the regiment. As a commander of the Regiment 4 Cavalry, the Stoilov colonel escorted Queen Mary in a festival which commemorated the thirtieth anniversary of accepting by the queen the position of commander of honor of the Regiment 4 Roșiori. Stoilov – the father left from the front with the Regiment 4 of line with the garrison at Craiova and he participated at the Independence War of Romania from 1877, including in the fight of Smârdan, Bukov (in which he was noticed) and Plevna. For his heroism from the battle field, he was decorated with the Orders the Star of Romania, the Military Virtue, Saint Anna (Russian order), Takov (Serbian order) and the medals Passing the Danube and the Defenders of the Independence. Later on, the colonel Stoilov was promoted at the degree of general of brigade. 
Besides the military life, Simion Stoilov was married with Maria (1857 – 1892), a woman from Oltenia, from Craiova, one of the two daughters of the colonel Ion Greceanu with Policsenia Bengescu (daughter of Costică Bengescu with Olga Lahovary). From their marrige, there resulted a son, Simion, the future great Romanian mathematician and academician, who was born and lived during the high-school studies in the house Stoilov – Bolintineanu. Simion Stoilov (14.09.1887 – 04.04.1961) attended the courses of the school Obedeanu and of the high-school Carol I from Craiova. At the age of 13 he remained orphan of father. In 1907, Stoilov left for studies at the University from Paris, where he obtained the license diploma (1910) and a PHD degree in mathematics (1916). He was chosen as full member in 1945, but also as chancellor of the University of Bucharest between the years 1944 and 1945. One year later, because of his political activity, Stoilov was named Ambassador of Romania in France, position which he occupied until 1948. Between 1948 and 1951, the mathematician occupied the position of dean at the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics from Bucharest, in parallel being also a director – founder of the Institute of Mathematics of the Romanian Academy (institution which bears his name), position held until his death. Simion Stoilov is known as a great creator of the topological theory of the analytical functions and of the Romanian school of complex analysis and prolific author in the Mathematics field.
The House Stoilov – Bolintineanu was transformed, after 1989, in a bank head office. Here was the head office of the branch office from Craiova of the Turkish – Romanian Bank, currently being the head office of the Italian Romanian Bank. 

