


Bank of Commerce Palace, the monumental building that hosts Craiova’s City hall, is one of the most famous buildings in the city. Bank of Commerce was designed by architect Ion Mincu in 1906 and finalized in 1916 by his student, Constantin Iotzu. The building has a rich interior decorated with stucco, vitro glass, Venice mosaic and forged iron lattice work.
On December 12th 1897 (1899 by other sources), the baker and famous liberal politician from Craiova Constantin Neamtu, founded in Craiova, as a family business, The Bank of Commerce. The banking company quickly became one of the most important and successful banks with Romanian capital in the country, opening branches in most important cities.
In 1906, the main promoter of neo-Romanian architecture, architect Ion Mincu, designed the project of the new headquarters of the institution. His early death, at only 60, occurred on December 6th 1912, interrupted works on the construction of the bank, which were finalized during 1912-1916, under the supervision of architect Constantin Iotzu. 
In order to finalize works at the Commerce bank headquarters Italian constructor Giovanni Batista Peressutti was hired, who worked together with Carlo Dalla Barba’s construction company. 
At the time of its inauguration, the Commerce bank was one of the most beautiful buildings in the city and even in the country, impressing both with its exterior, as well as its interior, heavily decorated with strained-glass windows, chandeliers and mosaic. 
The Palace of the former Commerce Bank is an imposing building, built on a quadruple plain on three levels, in an eclectic style with visible neo-Romanian elements. According to historical data, it is possible that the front of the building was symmetrical in Ion Mincu’s initial project and the volume on the right side of the entrance, which “somewhat symmetrizes the composition’”, to be a subsequent addition, done by Constantin Iotzu. Also, the architectural elements visible on the superior side of the main façade, above the cornice, close to the roof, may have been designed by Mincu after a study trip to Istanbul.
Constructors used for the building’s raising solid materials, brickwork, connected with cement mortar, Venice mosaic, stucco, skylights, strained-glass windows and zinc covers. 
The woodwork, baseboard and furniture were executed in Vienna. Inside you notice the former hall of the bank desks, today’s meeting room of the local council, whose cased ceiling has an elegant luminary in its center, decorated walls and painted ceilings, spectacular elements of ironmongery. From the ground floor hall, towards the west we find the access stairwell to the first floor and towards the east the access stairwell to the basement.
Built on three levels, the building had a basement (the bank’s treasury, different deposit boxes, archive, intendant’s house, central heating, own electrical factory and mechanical workshop), ground floor (vestibule, grand hall, desks and administration offices) and a first floor (vestibule, through which, crossing a gallery, you reached the main lobby where there were different offices, the board room and the director’s office).








