

The bust of Ioan Maiorescu is considered one of the oldest monuments of public open area in the city. Romanian sculptor Ioan Iordănescu’s work, the monument dedicated to the famous Romanian history professor and principal of the Craiova Centre School was inaugurated in January 1913.
In 1909, in a Craiova college students’ cultural society meeting, whose soul was history professor Vasile Mihăilescu, it was proposed and decided to raise a bust of Ioan Maiorescu.
By public subscription and with Titu Maiorescu’s contribution, the amount of 18.000 lei was raised, the necessary funds to built the bust. The bust execution was entrusted to the sculptor from Bucharest Ioan lordănescu, known for the construction of many historic monuments in Oltenia. Although the work was finished in 1911, the inauguration was postponed to January 7th 1913, when teachers from Craiova N. Bănescu and Vasile Mihăilescu finalized the homage volume dedicated to the great history teacher.
The bust of Maiorescu shows tremendous artistic value, done in bronze and the base in Câmpulung rock. Of the edge that forms the base, there detaches a male torso (symbol of time) and with both arms, wraps the bust in a drape (veil of the past) the bust shoulders.
In the base is carved the inscription: “To loan Maiorescu 1811-1864, apostle of national ideas on three Romanian principalities” and on its back is carved a paragraph from a speech of the great scholar and Romanian diplomat: “I, brother, have seen a lot and with all that, am convinced that the ones without study here in this country and farther in those inhabited by Romanians, will not have a lot of life. I have been in the Western countries and then to Vienna and there all over have understood that nothing else strengthens and enriches man’s life and thus that of the people more than learning, knowledge…”
The bust was initially placed in Bibescu park (currently Romanescu park), then, in the year 1928, it was moved in front of the Carol I National college, on the spot where the famous revolutionary teacher, up a tree, read the Islaz proclamation in 1848. After the 1977 earthquake, the bust was transferred a bit to the north, closer to the main façade of the Elena Cuza National College, in the square in front of the former Otetelișanu School.
Ioan Maiorescu was a Romanian history teacher, principal of the Craiova Centre School, diplomatic agent of the Wallachia government on the German detail in Frankfurt, on Main. 
He was born in the Trifu family, his father being a Transylvanian peasant, but took the name Maiorescu to highlight his relation to Petru Maior. He married Maria Popazu, with whom he had two children, Emilia and Titu, who was a great figure in end of 19th century beginning of the 20th century Romania. Between 1850 and 1857, Maiorescu settled in Vienna, where he worked for the Austrian government, as a Ministry of Justice translator. After the principalities unification in 1859, Ioan Maiorescu came back to Romania, where he was the president of the Community guardianship, the director of the Unified Principalities Central Commission, teacher at  „Sfântul Sava“, director of the Public instruction guardians and professor at the Letters university in Bucharest. Ioan Maiorescu died August 24th/ September 5th 1864, at only 54.

