

Saint Nicholas Church - Dorobănția is an architectural and religious monument in Craiova dedicated to Saint Nicholas (December 6th), is over 2 centuries old, was raised between 1782 and 1793 and rebuilt later.
It is believed to have been raised in wood around the year 1760 and later built in brick from the materials left over from the construction of the Madona Dudu Church in the immediate vicinity, around mid 18th century. The building of the church, begun around 1778 was the initiative of Lord Steward Constantin Fotescu, who was among the main founders of the Madona Dudu Church. On the Lord Steward’s death, in 1781, the church guardianship was left to his descendant, Dumitrache Fotescu, who, however, did not live to see its construction finalized either. The wall church was most likely completed in 1793, it having as founders “Gherasim the hieromonk and Constantin Atanasie, Constantin Băcanu and Olimpia the nun”, according to some church documents from 1838 and 1839.
The name the church is known under is the church dedicated to St. Nicholas, Dorobănția, is the name of the quarter in which it was built. The Dorobănția quarter, attested in 1746, when the city was divided in districts, would have its name due to the dorobanți (soldiers) regiments whose houses (barracks) were in this die of town.
At the beginning of the 19th century, the church ends up in ruin and is fixed by the iznaf (guild) of the fishermen, who request it for the celebration of their dedication day. After the 1838 earthquake, the church suffers significant damages again, being closed for a while and then entirely repaired in 1839 by “Ioniță Stoicescu and the fishermen hanse”.
According to some old church books, in 1849 a school functioned in the church courtyard, under the care of teacher Dimitrie Popescu. 
Between 1863 and 1865 there have been repair works that have radically changed the aspect of the church. Then the verandah was removed, the nave was linked to the narthex by the demolition of the separating wall, a gable was built and the wall steeple was replaced with a wooden one. During that time the wall belfry was also demolished.
During the 1943 through 1945 repair, which gave the church the current shape, the wooden steeple was torn down and another wall one was built, the verandah was added, the church as consolidated and surrounded by a cement base.
The church shows the post brancoveanu architectural style of the old Oltenia and Wallachia churches, triconic plane, with an open verandah on arcades and brick columns. The foundation is brick with bricklayer’s work and tin roofing.


