


Built mid 19th century, the house took tenor Grigore Gabrielescu’s name, important figure who was born and lived in this building. Also, in this building George Coșbuc temporarily lived after his marriage, on June 1st 1895, to Elena Sfetea, the sister of editor C. Sfetea.  Here, on August 11th 1895 the writer’s only son, Alexandru was born, deceased on August 26th 1915 in a car accident on his way to Tismana.
Born January 13th 1859, Grigore Gabrielescu takes the classes of the “Nicolae Bălcescu” high school (currently “Carol I”) in Craiova. The high school music teacher, George Simonis, discovers his talent and includes him in the mixed choir of the Madona Dudu Church, where he sings with Elena Teodorini, who ends up being his conductor. Aged 20 he leaves his home town to study at the Music School and Dramatic Arts in Bucharest.
Gabrielescu debuts in 1880 in “Martha” by Flotow, continuing to sing in shows at the Bucharest National Theatre. In the 1885 to 1886 season of the capital National theatre, he sings opera in Romanian for the first time. From this point on, Gabrielescu’s artistic career reaches high ends, with him getting to sing full seasons at the “La Scala” in Milan, at the Madrid theatre, at the Lisbon “Don Carlos” theatre, at the great lyrical theatres in South America (Montevideo, Rio de Janeiro or Buenos Aires). Grigore Gabrielescu was one of the first four great tenors in the world authorized by Verdi to sing Othello. After his magnificent performance as Enzo Grimaldo from the “La Gioconda” by Amilcare Ponchielli, Gabrielescu was appreciated by Giacomo Puccini himself, who invited him to sing the lead role in the world premiere of his work “Edgar” (1889). Grigore Gabrielescu’s artistic merits have granted him the honorary membership of the Music Academy in Lisbon and holder of the De Cristo Order, offered by Portugal’s sovereign, Don Carlos I.
At the beginning of the 20th century, Gabrielescu comes back in the country for a brilliant teaching and directory career, becoming a professor at the Declamation Music School in Iasi and then director of the Craiova National Theatre (1904-1907).
Between 1907 and 1910, together with Dr. I. Puțureanu, Gabrielescu handles the issuing of “Revistei culturale” in Craiova.
From 1911 till the spring of 1915, Grigore Gabrielescu is principal of the “Elefterie and Elena Cornetti” Music School. At the Cornetti school, he handled the teacher body assembly, creation of the night classes and putting together a symphonic orchestra of 60 instrument players which debuted on March 12th 1912.  
His career as principle ended due to some political intrigues, continuing his teaching activity in the Craiova Music School (Cornetti School) as a singing teacher, writing musical teaching books and composing works for the singer and the choir.
Grigore Gabrielescu was the founder, active president and later honorary president of the Choir societies Hora and Armonia. He dies on March 13th 1915 in Craiova. Aside from the house that is named after him, the memory of the great tenor Grigore Gabrielescu is also honored with two streets, one in Craiova and one in Bucharest, that are also named after him.

 


