



The house, dated mid 19th century, was built by painter Constantin Lecca, who founded the first printing house in Craiova here and printed the first magazine in Oltenia, “Mozaicul”.
In 1837, Constantin Lecca receives, from King Alexandru Dimitrie Ghica’s chancellor, the right to found a printing house in Craiova. He sets it up in the dowry house of his wife, Victoria Otetelișanu, where they lived and “where he had arranged a workshop”.
Constantin Lecca then bought the land the house is now on, having the condition from the vendor not to raise any buildings on the land. Still, Constantin Lecca built a house on this spot (probably between 1841and 1842). In the household courtyard there were also the painter’s workshop and printer house. The house was later sold, in 1857, to Zamfir Broșteanu. In 1935, the house belonged to Mrs. Ana Brailoiu, wife of Colonel Gheorghe Brăiloiu, the newsroom of the “Arhivele Olteniei” magazine being here.
The Brăiloiu Lecca House has a two level height regime (basement and ground floor). On the exterior of the house the window frames stand out, on decorative mortar (most likely added when the owners were the Brăiloiu family – by the letter B inside the laurels garland on both sides of each window). Unfortunately, in time the original looks of the building was affected. The house may be split between two owners today, visible by the different exterior finishing (on half of the façade there have not been any painting works done and the old woodwork was changed with wooden PVC, double glazed windows, which contravenes the rules in place for buildings included in the Historic Monuments list, while the other half of the façade the woodwork was kept and recently painted).
The entire façade onto the street that carries painter Constantin Lecca’s name is in an advanced state of ruin. There was a plaque set on it that reminds of this historic monument’s importance:
“Constantin Lecca house. This house, today mostly restored, was built by painter Constantin Lecca, 1848 revolution participant, on the ground he had bought in 1841 from cupbearer Grigorie Otetelișanu. Later, in 1857, Lecca sold the house. Here is where the first printer house in Craiova existed, founded by Constantin Lecca where books and the Mozaicul (1838-1839) magazine, the first magazine in Oltenia were printed.”




