

The house belonged to Dr. Dumitru Vernescu, one of the representative figures of the medical world in Romania in the first half of the 20th center.
Dumitru Vernescu was born June 26th 1866 in Aninoasa, Buzau, where he attended primary school. He graduated elementary school in Buzau, after which he left for Bucharest, studying at the St. Sava High School and Medical School, where he got his medical degree (1893). 
He was an external dr. (1887-1889) and an intern (1889-1893), a doctor in Prahova, then at the Village Hospital in Tecuci, Teleorman, Roznov (1894-1898). Between 1898 and 1927 he was an attending at the Th. I Preda Hospital in Craiova.
In September 1902, together with dr.Charles Laugier, dr.Vernescu initiated the Medical Pharmaceutical Circle in Craiova, whose member and secretary general he was. Among the founding members of the circle there was also dr.Schina, dr.Vernescu’s colleague at the Preda Hospital. In 1904, dr.Vernescu managed to obtain the right to issue free prescriptions without the Interim Commission from the Craiova City hall’s stamp of approval.
This lead to the simplification of some inconvenient formalities, which were making it harder for sick people to procure medication.
In 1909, dr.Vernescu was elected Vice president of the Medical Pharmaceutical Circle, together with dr.Schina. In those years, he became the first Romanian doctor to use dr.Jean Nicolaidi from Paris’s serum to treat serious cases of pellagra.
Dr.Vernescu got involved in building the new location of the Preda Hospital, inaugurated on February 14th 1910. The new building was built from the funds left by the City hall’s lawyer, philanthropist G. Pencioiu (dr.Vernescu’s brother in law, married to Silvia, born Stănescu, Vernescu’s wife’s sister, Sabina). In 1919, after a pause in the Medical Pharmaceutical Circle’s activity, it was redone and dr.Vernescu took the Vice president charge again.
During his career, dr.Dumitru Vernescu published many expert scientific communications in the “Spitalul” magazine. For extraordinary achievements in the medical fields, dr.Vernescu was decorated.
Dr. Dumitru Vernescu was married to dr.Sabina Vernescu (1880-1976, born Stănescu), with whom he had four children: Cornelia Smaranda (Nelly) Dumitrescu (1901), Paul Nicolae Vernescu (1902-1974), Radu Eugeniu Vernescu (1907-1974) and Dumitru Dinu Vernescu (1909). Dr. Vernescu died on October 16th 1937. Dumitru Dinu Vernescu wrote a documentary novel about his father’s personality, called “Salvatorul“. 
The Vernescu House has a three level height regime (semi-basement, ground floor and attic) and an interior courtyard that surrounded the house, closed with a cement and iron fence (towards the street). On the house exterior we notice the apparent brick decoration, the ones around the windows and Cornish, the decorative plasters with intricate letters D and V, the tin roof with windows and luminaries and brick chimneys or the west façade balcony. 
The door and windows’ frames are wooden. The visible facades (West, East and South) are degraded, the plasters missing from large surfaces.


