
The house, dating to the 20th century, belonged to Dr. Mihail Cănciulescu, one of the most prominent figures of the Oltenia medical world of inter-war Romania.
Mihail Cănciulescu was born February 22nd 1885 in Poiana Mare, Dolj County, in a modest family. He took five primary classes (1890 – 1896) at the Poiana Mare school, after which, between 1897 and 1904, he was a student of the Carol I high school in Craiova, from which he graduated with honors.
Graduate of the Bucharest Medical School, Cănciulescu was an intern at the Techerghiol sanatorium, at the Hospital in Sinaia and the civil hospitals in Bucharest and an external dr. of the Brâncovenesc Hospital in the capital. Between 1916 and 1918 was the director of the Hospital in Dorohoi. He came back to Craiova, in 1919 was elected librarian of the Medical Pharmaceutical Circle and in 1920 he became a resident of the Filantropia Hospital and then an attending of the pediatric section, attending of the medical section and even director. After 1948, Dr. Cănciulescu was named director of the TBC Centre in Dolj County, title with which he organized ample prophylaxis actions of this disease and contributed to the founding of the TBC heath centers in Filiași, Băilești and Maglavit and of the maternal infant one in Brădești.
In 1928, Dr. Mihail Cănciulescu founded the medical magazine „Acta Medica Romana” („Mișcarea Medicală Română”), whose publication he coordinated for twenty years, until 1948.  In the inter-war period, Dr. Cănciulescu was one of the promoters of the initiatives for the founding of medical education in Craiova, pleading for the need to found a medical school.
For his activity, he was rewarded numerous titles, orders and medals. He got the Coroana României cu spade order for his zeal and exceptional devotion with which he took care of sick and wounded people in 1917 (1918), the docent doctor in medicine (1925), he was named through royal decree a member of the Steaua României order (1929), he received the Al. Christescu Foundation golden medal and the Dr. L. L. Russ award of the medical academy and the second class work order (1956) and the emeritus doctor title.
Dr. Cănciulescu retired in 1957 but continued to practice at his own private practice. As of 1960, medical practices in Romania were cancelled and Cănciulescu had to get by on a small pension and with a precarious health state. Not until 1967, three years before he died, his request for a pension increase was approved, after 60 years of medical and scientific activity at the highest level.
For his contribution to the development of medicine, the Craiova authorities named a street from the 1 Mai quarter after the doctor.
The Cănciulescu house has a three height level regime (semi-basement, ground floor and attic) and an interior courtyard surrounded by a cement and iron fence. On the outside we notice the highly ornate parameter around the windows and the Cornish, with decorating plasters, tin roof with windows and laminators and the main entrance covered with marquise.

