Here lived poet Elena Farago, from 1921, when she was named director of the “Alexandru și Aristia Aman” foundation, until 1954, when she died.
Nowadays, the building houses administrative offices of the institution and a permanent memorial exhibit in the rooms where the poet lived.
The exhibit contains 396 items: letters, original documents, family photos, Xeroxed copies, magazines and books, personal belongings, furniture pieces and other objects that belonged to the poet and her family.
The building was built in 1898 as a “small home” of the Grigore and Elena Lăceanu family, in the same yard as their main residence home, today the headquarters of the County Library “Alexandru și Aristia Aman”.
In 1853, Aristia Lăceanu, the only daughter, married Alexandru Aman, with whom he founded the museum and Aman library and the former homes of her parents, later known as the Aman houses. In his will of May 14th 1901, Aristia Aman donates her building and fortune to the Craiova City hall. On December 21st of that same year, the “Alexandru și Aristia Aman” foundation was being inaugurated in the presence of the Ministry of public education at the time, Spiru Haret. 
In September 1921, the poet Elena Farago was named director of the foundation she ran for over 30 years. In all this time, she lived and created the Amans’ small home, which she transformed in a real literary salon, where she polarized literary and cultural people from Craiova, but where she also kept the literature and art history classes in the Free university in Craiova, which became at N. Iorga’s proposal, “Prietenii Științei”. The building was Elenei Farago’s home, as well as a preferred meeting place of art and literature lovers, until the poet’s death in 1954.
The permanent exhibit of the Elena Farago Memorial house was done in the 80s with university professor Dr. C. D. Papastate’s support. On this occasion there were 396 exhibits that were exposed and which celebrate the life and activity of the poet: original documents, Xeroxed copies, family photos, paintings, correspondence, furniture pieces, personal belongings, manuscripts, books and magazines, awards and accolades.  
In 2007, with the financial support of the Dolj County Council, the Elena Farago Memorial house – patrimony building – was consolidated and modernized from the ground up. Presently, the building houses administrative offices of the “Alexandru și Aristia Aman” County Library and the permanent memorial exhibit, open to the public.
Elena Farago, brilliant representative of the Romanian literature and cultural life from Craiova, was born on March 29th 1878 in Bârlad. Descendant from an old family of Greek origins, Elena was the second child of the seven of spouses Anastasia and Francisc Paximade. She had a difficult childhood, losing three brothers (between 1884 and 1890), mother (1890) and father (1895). Established in Bucharest after a serious condition, during which she was admitted to Colțea, works as a governess to I. L. Caragiale’s children, in whose house she meets Al. Vlahuță, G. Coșbuc and G. Ranetti. She marries Francisc Farago – economist, afterwards named director of the Popular Bank in Craiova from 1905, with whom he moves in Bănie, where she will stay for the rest of her life. The two had two children, Coca and Mihnea.

