

The Băniei House is the oldest civil building in Craiova, rebuilt by Constantin Brâncoveanu in 1699 on the grounds of the old landowners’ houses from the 15th century in Craiova. According to most historical opinions, the Banie houses were built by the great ban Barbu Craiovescu, Neagoe de la Craiova oldest son, the founder of the Craiovești family. The houses, built on the grounds of other older landowners’ building, served as residence to the bans and as assembly places for the Craiova Divan.
Descendant of the same family (the 8th generation from Neagoe) was king Constantin Brâncoveanu, who built the Băniei Houses in 1699 with the tax collected from the counties in Oltenia. Rebuilt in a form very similar to that of today, the house was done by the king’s architect masters, in a popular style with columns.
With the Passarowitz Treaty from1718, Oltenia was put under Austrian occupation until 1739. From the historical documents it’s shown that here was the Chesariceștii Administrațiuni headquarters. In 1737, the Austrians entered the Russian Turkish war and Craiova was occupied by the Turkish people. The Bănie houses became the residence of the general quarter of Pasha Murtaza, commander of the Turkish army during the war. After their departure in 1739, the Băniei Houses were abandoned.
In 1811, the houses become Elisa Otetelișanu’s property, who did repairs and added the back verandah to the house.
At the end of the 19th century, during the construction of the Justice Palace, the Bănie House served as temporary residence of the Craiova courthouse.
At the beginning of the 20th century, it served as residence to some scholastic institution: „Frații Buzești” secondary school, the teachers’ school and the Priest seminar until 1931, then for a short while, the Craiova section of the State Archives, lead by Professor C. D. Fortunescu.
After they were repossessed by the Craiova City hall, the annexes of the Bănie houses were demolished and the main building was restored in 1933, after a project designed by architect Iancu Atanasescu.
In 1934, at Marin Demetrescu’s request, the director of the Regional Museum of Oltenia, the mayor of Craiova, decides the concession of the Bănie houses to the Regional Museum of Oltenia, property of the town. Before receiving the new cultural assets, the Băniei house was restored, the works being done according to architect A. Vincenz’ plans.
Opening the new location of the Regional Museum of Oltenia (The Antiques and Ethnography Museum of Oltenia) in the Bănie houses took place in 1934, at the same time as the Archeology and numismatics exhibit’s inauguration. As such, the building became the premises of the Museum of Oltenia until 1948, when it given to the Metropolitan Church of Oltenia. In 1964 it is returned to the Museum of Oltenia. 
Currently, visitors can admire the exhibits “Facerea pâinii” (from hoeing to seeding and from mowing to the ritual pastry and “Ritmurile vieții”(Ceramics from Oltenia, waistcoat making, wedding traditions, religious objects, glass icons, woven materials, carpets and wall carpets) as well as a doll exhibit.


