
The Puțureanu Inn is a patrimony building in the historical old center of the town of Craiova in the Piața Veche (Piața Elca), close to the important monuments and tourist attractions – the former Central school for Girls (today the Museum of Oltenia), Madona Dudu Church, the Hurezi Inn, Purcarului Fountain, St. Dumitru Cathedral and the Băniei House.
The building founded by merchant Niță D. Puțureanu, is a great complex with inn architecture specific to the 19th century, unfortunately in an advanced state of degradation.
Niță D. Puțureanu, born in a modest family, of peasants in the Puțuri-Dolj village, managed through work and ambition to overcome his social condition, entering the bourgeoisie in Craiova in the second half of the 19th century. Puțureanu married Maria Dimianu in 1875, daughter of a shoe maker in the Sf. Gheorghe Vechi quarter, with whom he had six children out of which three survived (Zoe, Eliza and Mihail). Niță Puțureanu successfully completed the important tasks the authorities at the time had given him, during the Independence war leading the National Guard founded for the security of Craiova.
At the beginning of the 1880s, Puțureanu dedicated himself to commerce, opening a small shop of beverages on the St. Dumitru Street (today Matei Basarab Str.).
From its earnings, he began the construction of him famous inn, building piece by piece, around and over his shop, “many rooms, storage units, basements, stables, a kitchen, a coffee shop with pool and even a bowling alley”.
According to his son, “the whole building was finished in 1885, date inscribed in the inn’s balcony, with his father’s initials N.P.D.”
In 1907, Puţureanu, worn down by old age and disease, “put a replacement in the shop and in 1908,  retired from commerce forever, renting out the shop, but the inn kept functioning and did function until World war I”. In February 1910, he dies, due to an accident.
In the division of assets, his 3 children (two girls and a boy) agree that the Inn with all its dependencies go to Mihail Puţureanu, a young man eager to learn and not at all attracted to commerce. After finishing his studies at the Bucharest Law School, he will practice law in the Dolj Bar. From 1918, for 30 years, Mihail rents out his father’s shops to various merchants and other tenants find shelter. In the spring of 1945, in a few of the apartments, some Red Army officers will settle in.
In 1950 the Inn is nationalized.
This building’s foundation begun from the lower part, raising firstly the shop, the storage and a small kitchen, to cook the food passengers needed. In the storage the customers deposited the horses’ harnesses. At that same time the four rooms were built and the closets on the left side as you entered the alley, which served as bedrooms for the passengers that came in with carriages or chariots in the inn’s courtyard. At the back of the courtyard, they built two stables and a storages for the passengers’ winter need, because in the summer the horses and bulls stayed on the 
Carriages or chariots in the yard and above them was put a bridge for hay and a scale to weigh the hay passengers needed.
Later on the building was built on the right side of the alley and the back of the building on the left side.

