The Monument of the Buzești Brothers is a public audience monument in Craiova, placed in the south-east corner of the St. Dumitru Park, in front of the “Buzești brothers” National College. The statuary group, work of sculptor Boris Caragea, shoes the Buzești brothers, Preda, Stroe and Radu, standing with cloaks on their shoulders and hats on their heads, two of them holding swords. On the statuary group of the base we can read the following inscription: “The Buzești brothers, Preda, Stroe and Radu. Captains in Mihai Viteazul’s army. 1593 – 1601. Eternal glory is to their descendants, who with strength and heroism executed the ideals of liberty, unity and independence and built the resistant foundations of the grand edifice from Romania.”
The Buzești Brothers were one of the most prominent historical figures in Oltenia of the late 16th century, beginning of the 17th century. Landowners from Oltenia, army captains and diplomats, the three Buzescu brothers had an essential role in local, regional and national history, their destiny being tightly tied to that of Mihai Viteazul.
Preda Buzescu, the oldest brother, was great Ban of Craiova, administering and running the country, defending Oltenia from the Turkish people. Radu Buzescu, Lord Steward and former sword bearer, fought as a general for Mihai Viteazul, protecting the country and taking back territories in his name, but also had diplomatic missions, being sent as peon and collaborating to administration and managing of Transilvania after his entry in Alba Iulia. Stroe Buzescu, high steward, had important diplomatic tasks (coordinated the official missions for governor of Transilvania Sigismund Bathory, the Polish king Jan Zamoyskia and Emperor Rudolf the 2nd), tactical strategic and military of the battle field.
After Mihai Viteazul’s death, the Buzești brothers governed Wallachia for a short while, backing Radu Șerban back in his reign, together, with whom they continued the anti Turkish fight.
Boris Caragea (1906, Balcic, Bulgaria —1982, Bucharest) was a Romania sculptor, corresponding member of the Romanian Academy and president of the Graphical artists Union. Caragea began taking drawing lessons between 1924 and 1925 from Hrandt Avakian. In the first stages of creation, the artist approached religious subjects or did portraits.
The second stage of Caragea’s design meant the passing to social realism, becoming the official sculptor of the communist ideology, according to which he has destroyed all his works before 1944, when he was sculptor of the Royal house. In this phase he designed mostly outside, appropriate for architectonic complexes, rapidly becoming one of the main representatives of the realist current of Romanian sculpture.
Between 1951 and 1957, Boris Caragea was president of the Graphical artists Union and from 1962 he was president of the Graphical arts Council part of the State Committee for culture and art. Caragea was elected corresponding member of the Romanian Popular Republic Academy, was named Master Emeritus of the arts, later Artist of the people and was rewarded for his activity with different awards and accolades (the award for sculpture of the Ministry of Arts, the State Awards).

