“Saint Dimitrie the Chrism Giver” from Filiași is one of the principal emblems of the city.
The foundation stone of the place of worship was set in the year 1924, but the hardship of the times were blocked by its building up, the church being finished in the year 1965, being consecrated by the worthy of mentioning metropolitan Firmilian of Oltenia.
Saint Dimitrie
The Holy Great Metropolitan Metropolitan, the chrism giver or Saint Dumitru, the Chrism Giver was a Christian martyr, military saint from the IIIrd century who lived in the times of the emperors Maximian and Diocletian in the citadel Thessaloniki. Dimitrie was the son of the voivode of the citadel of Thessaloniki, baptized in secret by his parents, because of the fear of the draconian persecutions against the Christians.
He was martyred around the year 306.
The traditional hagiography says the fact that saint Dumitru was a deacon at Thessaloniki, martyred with the shaft, during the anti-Christian persecution from under the emperor Diocletian, or, maybe during the times of the Emperor Galerius.
Other sources state the fact that Saint Dumitru was a noble, officer, proconsul of Ahaia. Following the fact that he confessed Jesus Christ, he was killed with the shaft at Thessaloniki. The crusaders from the Middle Ages adopted him, as well as Saint George, as their guardian. 
Filiași
Is an old commercial burg, which later on became a city and an important railway and road node of Oltenia. 
On the territory of the city the archeological discoveries brought to light ceramics belonging to the renowned culture of Coțofeni from the bronze era, as well as the Thesaurus from Filiași, which contains dinars of Friesach and Corinthia from the XIIIth century. The first certification of the name of the locality dates back to the 1st of January 1573.
In the year 19065 Dimitrie Filișanul founds a splendid construction, “The Filișan Chapel”.
The Filișanu aristocrats built the Hospital of the Filișani and two drinking fountains for water, one in the village Balta, and other in Filiași, situated at the “Grand Inn”.
In the year 1935 the teacher Nicolae Mitea builds up the Library of the People, currently the City Library “Anton Pann”.
Around the year 1955, the mayor Ștefan Moraru, introduced for the first time electricity on all the streets and street lighting on all the principal arteries, being extended in the entire city in the following years. He also arranged the streets, they being paved with cubic stone starting with the year 1960 and it was introduced the first drainage network and drinking water which covered the central area of the Filiași. Around the years 1958 – 1963 it was arranged the first recreation and relaxation center at the Great Inn, the area of the 3 lakes, existing the possibility and very good conditions for fishing, and at the end of the week there was opened the embankment, every citizen having the possibility of relaxing by paddling. The Cultural Center together with the Summer Garden were built around the year 1954, here taking place the weekly balls, there were projected movies and shows. Ștefan Morary remained and still remains in the history of Filiași as one of the mayors who set the foundation stone of today’s Filiași.
Also under the command of Ștefan Moraru there was built the current market and the city’s market house. In the year 1967 Ștefan Moraru put the foundation stone of the Bread Factory, of the Restaurant Jiul and of the Summer Garden behind it. In the year 1968, in the month of May, Filiași under Ștefan Moraru received the title of city. 

