The ruins of the Roman camp from Răcarii de Jos were discovered at the end of the 19th century, the archeological diggings from here proving that the military fortress, that measured approximately 170 m in length and 145 in width, dominated the entire area on the Jiu bank at the time of the Dacian roman wars up until the great Aurelian retreat.
The plans done by famous archeologists like Pamfil Polonic, in 1898 and Dumitru Tudor, in 1965, launched an amazing hypothesis, sustained by archeologist Dorel Bondoc, who took over research in the area: around the camp an entire civil settlement was developed across almost 40 ha.
The site contains a Roman camp that functioned during four distinct periods, during the Dacian roman wars (101-106 p.Chr.), almost until the Roman retreat (271 p.Chr.).
Garrison of the cavalry of an auxiliary unit, the fortress measures, during its most advanced state, 170 x 145 m between the defense walls and approximately 250 x 180 m between the defense ditches.
A quasi urban settlement developed around the camp, with initial dimensions estimated between 8 and 10 ha, partially overlapped with the current railway station and the neighboring railway, on the European road and the Răcarii de Jos village. The military objective had as main purpose the supervision of an important harbor on the Jiu River, as well as the control of the Southern access points (the Danube), Northern (Orăștiei Mountains) and Western (Drobeta – the main access point of the Romans in Dacia). According to Florin Ridiche, manager of the Museum of Oltenia, here was the residence of the Roman unit of riders Numerus Maurorum (aprox. 500 riders from Northern Africa). After the Dacian roman wars, this military unit, based in the Răcari camp, was meant to ensure the order in the newly formed province of Dacia Inferior, later, Dacia Malvensis.
 A subunit of Numerus Maurorum was stationed in Pelendava and it was meant to appease the newly conquered Dacian tribe of its inhabitants.  
The discoveries done in time are more than enough for Răcari to be called one of the most important sites in Oltenia, third in size after Slăveni and Bumbești, but extremely well preserved.
Here a small monetary treasure of golden coins, with 98% purity, from emperor Vespasian’s time, as well as many luxurious ceramic objects, inscriptions and statues.

