
The Cujmir parrish curch, dedicated to „St. Arch. Mihail and Gavriil” was built from the beginning from the ground up by G.G. Tavlaș, from burnt brick, with no rock foundation, with rectangular windows, very small with one door, paved with burnt brick, covered with tiles and painted with tempera. In local tradition, this worthy founder, called G.G. Tavlaș by the congregation, was a capable patriot, who loved his country and people and had settled with his pandours in a plac called „Scăpău” (Escape), eastern part of the village, once full of brush, forrest and swamps. The place called Scăpău begins with the church, west of this place and we might say, even at its border. This name came from the fact that this founder, Mihail G.G. Tavlaș, dug or hid with his pandours in these brushes in swamoy woods, when he robbed the Greek and greedy Turkish caravans.
After capturing many Greek and Turkish caravans and killing many Greek and Turkish people, he decided to leave a memory in this spot, building from basis this beautiful church shaped like a ship, with a beautiful interior architecture and a nice verandah brâncovenesc style. It is worth mentioning that the walls of this church are 0.90 m thick and the arches and arcades supported by two pillars, separating the nave from the narthex, are also built in burnt brivk, very solid. The altar screen is also in burnt brick, same thickness as the walls.
After finishing the Church, Mihail G.G. Tavlaș left these places and was never heard from again. In 1868 this church was reconstructed. In 1899, ruined from the earthquake, it was fixed and sanctified with the Râmnicului Noului Severin Bishop. In 1953, being almost ruined, priest Gavrilă Mihai prevailed and built a new stone basis and repaired the ouside walls. In 1962 the Cujmir church had the outside walls repaired managed by priest Iie Ștefan. Between 1964 and 1966, through priest Filip Ion’s perseverence, helped by the parrish counsil and commitee, new works were executed on the church in Cujmir.

1. Covering the church with boards and galvanized tin.
2. Paving the church with cement and 12 cm thick mosaic.
3. Repainting the church fresco style by painter Emil Ivănescu from Curtea de Argeș.
4. The inside furniture done in oak wood.
5. The reconstruction of the tower bell on the right, from locust tree wood, covered in tin from the church’s old roof.

