
Information about the Severin Port can be found even from the XVIIIth century. After the occupation of Oltenia (1718 – 1741), when they already had the intention of building on the same place of the Severin from today the city “Carolina”, the Austrians were already present in the area even from 1829 (the Treaty from Adrianopol), already building in front of the new city, the port and in 1850, the naval building yard necessary for the maintenance of the ships confronted with the difficult crossing of the cataracts and of the cliffs from the defile Porțile de Fier.
On the 8th of May 1866, Prince Carol I debarks at Severin in order to take over the command of Romania. On the shackles there was situated a multitude of people, but not for welcoming this passengers, but because of the fact that it was the Sunday of the Pentecost, and the people were coming out to go for a walk.
One day later, on the 10th of May, after a strenuous itinerary with the diligence, the traveler enters in Bucharest in the acclamations of the people, who this time, gathered for him. In this moment it was going to start one of the most important periods in the history of Romania, the one of the reign of Carol I.
Four years later, in 1870, received in the port of Severin with great ostentation, steps for the first time on the land of Romania, Queen Elisabeth (1843 – 1916).
On the 8th of May 1939, King Carol the IInd and his son, the great Voivode of Alba Iulia, Mihai, are present, at Turnu Severin, where they unveil the commemorative plate on the place where Carol I set his foot for the first time on Romanian grounds.
In the 48 years of his reign (the longest reign in the history of the Romanian states), Carol I obtained the independence of the country, because of which his prestige also grew immensely, he redressed the economy, he equipped Romania with a series of institutions specific to the modern state and he set the bases of a dynasty. He built in the Carpathian Mountains the Peleș castle, which remained even in the present one of the most visited tourist attractions of the country. After the Russian – Turkish war (1877 – 1878), Romania won Dobrogea (but lost the south part of Basarabia), and Carol disposed the building up of the bridge over the Danube, between Fetești and Cernavodă, which will connect the new province to the rest of the country.
Today, the Severin port is under the coordination of the National Company of the Administration of the Ports of the Fluvial Danube SA Giurgiu, being a fluvial type port, allowing the landing of the barges of up to 3000 tones. 

