
The memorial House Matache was built at the beginning of the XXth century, having as owner Matache Oana Zoia. Later on the house was nationalized having more uses among which also a Polyclinic. In the year 2000 the building was retrocede to the family Matache.
In the year 2010, the building was renovated, being dedicated to the headquarters of the institution Hidroserv S.A. The investment associated with the renovation was of 1 million Euros, aiming the total conservation of the architecture of the historical monument, part of the cultural patrimony of Mehedinți.
The Society of Hydro-energetic Services Hidroserv S.A. the headquarters Porțile de Fier, was founded in the year 1972, together with the starting of the reparation works at the first aggregate of the Hydroelectric Power Plant Porțile de Fier I, functioning within the hydro-energetic system Porțile de Fier until august 2002, when in the base of the Government Decision regarding the reorganization of the society of producing the electric energy, became S.C. Hidroserv Bistrița S.A.
The headquarters Porțile de Fier executes reparation and maintenance works for 8 hydroelectric power plants, in which there are assembled 24 hydro-aaggregates, with an installed power of 1.660, 17 MW, representing 26, 1% of the installed power in the hydroelectric power plants administered by Hidroelectrica.
The branch office executes reparation works, maintenance and modernization and the hydro-aggregates, energetic and hydro-mechanic installations, ensuring the entire range of necessary activities, including the reparation of the palettes of the turbines namely covering the areas with cavitations, having in the equipment equipments of thermal pulverization and welding with modern procedures type WIG, namely MIG.
S.S.H. HIDROSERV S.A., the Head Office Porțile de Fier executes constructions and metallic confections works, including anti-corrosive protection, sandblast and coverings with anti-corrosive protections, using the procedures of welding and modern cutting, the procedure MIG-MAG synergic source type, procedure WIG, inverter source type AC-DC, MMA procedure with the inverter source type, carving air arch, with welding procedures homologated using authorized welders on a very wide range of domains and welding procedures.
The head office executes works of water supply and oil networks under pressure, allied week steel piping, namely polyethylene of high density, having in the equipment performance welding equipment, manual with electrode covered wig, mig0mag, with authorized welders on the domains and numbered procedures, using welding procedures homologated by ISCIR and ISIM Timișoara. 


