The church was built in the second part of the 17th century by Constantin Bălăceanu. From the official documents it’s shown that the „Adormirea Maicii Domnului” church building began in 1864 but was finalized in 1825, due to a turbulent period through which the Bălăceanu family went, who handled the construction of the Christian building. Lady Maria, the daughter of the king of Wallachia, Şerban Cantacuzino, is displayed next to Constantin Bălăceanu – her husband – in the church inscription. In 1747, the metropolitan of Hungarian Wallachia, Neofit I, passing through Balaci, finds this great stone church, still empty. It was not until 1820 that a different Constantin Bălăceanu finishes the palace begun here and revives the empty church. The church built on the ruins of a very old one, of which balads and legends speak, still lasts today, while the Balaci palace became deserted again, all that was left of it being three underground rooms, similar to those in the royal Curtea-Veche palace in Bucharest.
Although it was begun in 1684 the construction was not finished due to circumstances that lead to Bălăceanu’s death, in the Zărnești battle.
The church was not plastered until 1825 by the great ban Constantin Bălăceanu and his sons (great hetman Ștefan Bălăceanu, the great former aga C. Bălăceanu, the great equerry Iancu Bălăceanu and Grigore Bălăceanu). On this occasion the votive portrets of the Bălăceni were painted, in the church that had not been painted until then.
The church is atipical for the churches built at that time. The tower is octagonal and the porch has three arcades.
According to a report that Virgil Drăghiceanu wrote in 1914 to the Historical Monuments Commission, the architectonic style of the Balaci church is the one of Matei Basarab’s era, the rectangular compound being split in a porch, narthex, nave and a polygonal altar, the thickness of the wall is of 1.13 m, 18.65 m in lenght, width of 5.7 m and height of 19.35 m. On the outside the wall looks is characterized by niches, separated by two jagged girdles in brick.
The church dedicated to the Adormirea Maicii Domnului holiday, from the Balaci parrish, is a church of great historical value, but also from an architectural point of view this church stands out among all the churches in Teleorman county. It is built in the second part of the 17th century by Constantin Bălăceanu and has a special architecture, PS Galaction Stângă, Bishop of Alexandria and Teleorman said.
The Holy Mary icon ("Mangaietoarea") considered to be miracle making is also found in the church.

