Church of St. Paraskevi in Alunișu was built between 1812 - 1813, being included in the list of historical monuments of Olt County. Alunișu is the residence village of the commune Spineni. 
The oldest traces of human inhabitation on the current territory of the commune were found on the Valley Veda and consist of three parts of polished stone, dating from the lower Paleolithic and Mousterian periods. Given that these pieces were found in the layer of alluvions and ten more identical pieces have been identified along the same valleys, it can be concluded that these were brought by water. However, archaeological diggings or extensive research have   not been undertaken yet, so it can not be determined accurately the origin of these tools.
In 1990 are made some archaeological researches in the area "Moara lui Iovescu" in the village of Vineți and are found traces of houses on two living levels: from the IV century and from centuries VI and VII. Unfortunately, the work has not continued in the coming years because the land was parceled out and rendered for agriculture. The first documentary attestation of the village is dated May 20, 1515, when voievode Neagoe Basarab gives to Manea Vulpariul (important nobleman of the beginning of the XVI century) half of the estate of the Priest.
The first documentary attestation secure for inhabit these areas appears in the June 27, 1529 Decree by which Moses the Romanian Country voievode, reinforces some estates of Govora Monastery and among the noblemen sent to investigate the documents and to testify appear, also Radul and Stoian from Aluniş. Or if there were masters certainly that there were also subjects.
In the early seventeenth century megies lands began to be bought by various noblemen, because until the end of the century, practically the entire surface had to become either of the noblemen or of the monastery. Starting with the nineteenth century the villages of the commune appear on all maps and catagraphies of Romanian Land. The villages of the commune, in time, were part of various nets (from 1911 all the villages are found in Plasa Spineni), then, after the reorganization of the districts and regions, they became part of the district Vedea.
From 1864 to 1950 are constituted city halls in the villages Alunișu, Spineni and Profa, and after 1950, by the law of reorganization of municipalities, the village of Profa is incorporated into the commune Alunișu, which, in turn, on the administrative reform in February 1968 is joined to the commune Spineni keeping the name of the latter. Residents actively participate in the most important events and conflicts that mark the evolution and formation of modern Romania. Thus, in the War of Independence we find them concentrated in a unit of the Battalion II from 3rd Regiment Olt, leaving offerings at the assault of the redoubt Griviţa II.



