
Mihail Drumeş Memorial House dates from the late nineteenth century. Writer Mihail Drumeş, which was marked by works like "Invitation to Waltz", "Student Dima " or "Love Letter" is one of the most beloved novelists of the interwar period.
The son of Vasilie Dimitrie (became Dumitrescu) and of Despina (n. Gero). His family, originally aromână has established in Oltenia. He attended high school in Caracal and Craiova, graduating in 1925. Then attends the Faculty of Letters and Philosophy of Bucharest University, graduated in 1928. For a  while he works as a high school teacher then he will move into higher education. 
Mihail Drumeş makes his debut in Flamura magazine in 1922, editorial debut volume of short stories and sketches The Trap in 1927. Between 1922 and 1924 the National Theatre in Craiova registers in its repertoie its play The Bet, but will not be staged. He works as drama columnist  on newspaper The Ramp in Bucharest for National Theatre in Craiova. In 1925 baccalaureates from College Charles I in Craiova, where he attended the last two classes after leaving school because of military service and war. Between 1924 and 1928 he is a student at the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters, University of Bucharest. In 1927 he became member of the Romanian Writers' Society, and the Playwright' Society. The author became one of the most read writers of the interwar period. In 1938 the novel Love Letter appears in newspaper's Universe literary collection the Universe.In 1940, the play Naluca is published in "Universul literar",collection with the volume‚’’Trei comedii: Școala nevestelor, Calul de curse, Liniștea soțului – previously broadcasted by Radio Bucharest. In 1941, a crime of passion, which had been banned from the National's repertoire of Cluj in 1935, after the second performance,a unique case in the interwar period, sees the light of day in the same collection of "Literary Universe" with a presentation by Teodor Scarlat. In 1942, the novel Sfantul Parere, published in 1930 in serial form in the columns of daily "Dimineata" and immediately in Ed. Cartea Romaneasca reappears with the a changed title in Cazul Magheru in Ed. Bucur Ciobanul and it is positively reviewed by "Viata Romaneasca: "Gandirea", "Rampa". 
In 1946, The novel ‚’’ Elevul Dima dintr-a șaptea’’, fresco of adolescence in our literature, along with Ionel Teodoreanu's novel Medelenii, the author brings back the attention of readers. In 1961 Editura Militara publishes his novel "Se revarsa apele", subtitled "Chronicle of a series of intertwined stories about people and facts happened in those first years of our century and about peasant uprisings from that time."
In 1969, Iancu Jianu historical story appears in serial form in the newspaper "Olt" in Slatina. In 1974 Editura Albatros publishes his novel Arde Prahova. At publishing house Ion Creangă the volume „Povestiri despre cutezători” sees the light of day in 1977. Between 1978 and 1979 continues the work as a novelist with the publication of „Povestea neamului românesc. De la început și până în zilele noastre. Pagini din trecut”. In 1980 Ed. Dacia from Cluj-Napoca publishes his  volume „10 cărți celebre repovestite de Mihail Drumeș”. On 27th of Febuary 1982, the writer dies in Bucharest, leaving in manuscript several books of prose, plays, film scripts, processing etc

