The Church St. Nicholas from Brezuica was built in 1810 and rebuilt in the period 1863-1869. The abode was built of brick and covered with tin. The painting is in oil in Neo-Byzantine style. The inscription attests that over time there have served priest Dincă Popa (1852-1903), Priest Mihai Rădoi (1906-1906), Priest Vişănescu  Dumitru (1906-1927), Priest Mihail Delcea (1928-1961), Priest Zamfirescu Haralambie (1961 -1991), Priest Mihai Viorel.
In 1968 were made exterior repairs. In 1983 has been consolidated on the expense of Priest Dumitru Stancu. In 1994 it was restored the interior painting and the church was reconsecrated in 1995. The same inscriptions remember that "in 1997 was restored the exterior being spattered in white cement and were painted the exterior, the porch and bell tower by painter Prundaru Ştefan, being consecrated in the same year by P. S. Irineu."
Saint Nicholas is celebrated on 6 December. Of Greek origin (Nikolaos), the name consists of two words: nike "victory" (from nikao "to defeat"), and laos, "people"and can also have the  meaning of  "people's victory". 
St. Nicholas lived in the time of emperors Diocletian and Maximilian. First flashed through religious living; and for his improved life he was made bishop.
Nicholas was born into a wealthy family, and after his parents died, he used his inheritance to help the poor people. Because the saint boldly proclaiming the faith in Christ was caught by the rulers of the city, was beaten and tortured, then thrown into prison together with other Christians. When Constantine became emperor of the Romans, all prisoners were released from all bonds and, along with them, also  St. Nicholas, which left in Myra. Not long after, was gathered, by Great Constantine, the first Council of Nicaea, where Nicholas was also present. He was appointed cardinal of the province Myra and is known for the miracles that he has made throughout his life and for his generosity. He died on December 6th, year 345 (or 352, according to other sources), being celebrated every year on this date. Many churches were built having as patron St. Nicholas, he is also one of the most painted saints on icons. It is known as the patron saint of countries like Germany, Holland, Russia, Romania, Switzerland, but is also the protector of sailors, unmarried girls, the poor, and not least children. 
The legend of St.Nicholas says that St. Nicholas helped three poor girls from his town, bringing them dowry ,at night without being seen. The house where three sisters lived was very poor. Their father planned to sell his daughters to get rich. The old man was not deceived by the tears and pain of his daughters, but St. Nicholas heard of the misfortune that happened and came to their aid. At night, stealthily, he threw a bag full of gold into  elder girl's room. Thus, she managed to marry soon. He did the same in the next two years, and the middle sister and then the little sister managed to settle down at their homes. The father of the girls decided, however, that before the marriage of his youngest daughter, to spy St. Nicolas, at night. Thus, he saw him when he climbed on the roof, this time and dropped a bag on the chimney. Since then, the legend of Father Nicholas says that he never shows Himself, as it does Santa Claus,  but he does not forget to reward good children and to bring twigs to the disobedient ones.


