Summer Theatre from Caracal is the place where are carried out some of the events planned within the National Theatre Caracal, with constant activity in the summer season. The edifice of the theater in Caracal, built between1896-1901 in eclectic style with neo-baroque and neo-Renaissance accents, impresses by its massiveness and its decorative richness.
The theater was done after the plans of the Austrian architect Franz Billek, drawn up in Bucharest in May 1896. As far as we know, this is the only building designed by the architect Billek within the Kingdom. The entrepreneur was the italian Mariani Spaulenzi.
North and south facades keep the decorative elements of the eastern facade, but putting them into practice in a different way. The engaged columns become pilasters without capital, the traffic window is bordered by two Mascheroni.  The cornice crown ends with a triangular gable. The lanterneau over the access stairs to the balcony is of sheet. The building is brick masonry, at windows and doors were used as lintels narrow railway tracks.In treating the interior spaces, the focus was on the lobby. From the original model was eliminated the monumental scale of honor. Access to the balcony is via two lateral staircases, made of stone. The original painting was not preserved, today the interiors being completely repainted. The second floor has three small windows and a cornice on consoles, traffic made of plaster with plant motifs having as emblem the lyre. Initially, on the cornice were four statues representing the muses: Caliope, Eutherpe, Thalia and Terpsichore, replaced in 1959. (Source Monograph of Caracal, National Journal). 
We mention briefly some of the artists who have ennobled this scene: the brilliant violinist George Enescu gave several concerts. Mrs. general Averescu mouth sang for charity concerts. Then: Aristiţa Romanescu, Agata Bârsescu, Sturza, Filotti, Marioara Voiculescu, C. Notara, Brezeanu, Liciu, Soreanu, Lecca, Davila, Demetriad, Bulandra, Creţu, Anestin, Radovici, Manolescu, Storin, Ciprian, George Vraca, Grigore Vasiliu Birlic, Dina Cocea, Tantzi Cocea, Fory Eterle, Aurel Rogalschi, Eugenia Zaharia, Vasile Creţoiu, Ovidiu Rocoş, Remus Comăneanu, Manu Nedeianu etc. In opera and operetta: Băjenaru, Niculescu-Basu, Atanasiu, Nora Marinescu, Tănase etc. Great scholars: Iorga, Pârvan, I. Ştefănescu held conferences, as well as Tache Ionescu, Xenopol, Mircescu, political conferences. Great figures of science, literature and art: Nicolae Iorga, Vasile Pârvan, Xenopol, Octavian Goga, great politicians such as: Tache Ionescu, Nicolae Titulescu have lectured for the prosperity of the Romanian nation and culture, but also for the fulfillment of their great dream of always, to realize the Great Romania.
Caracal has its own theater troupe under the name Municipal Theater, with uninterrupted service for over 60 years, a team of amateurs, it is true, but with a repertoire signed by professional directors, with theatrical performances for all tastes and for any age.
At the National Theatre are held, annually the National Theater Festival "Stefan Iordache", Comedy Festival of unprofessional theaters, Theatre Festival and Short Film for Youth "fesTin", permanent season of the Municipal Theatre, theater performances, music, entertainment, symposiums, conferences, exhibitions etc.

