In 1962, within the Mansion Romano began operating the Auxiliary School for children who could not cope with the normal curriculum.
The mansion was executed by the famous architect Cerchez in neo-Romanian style in 1920. The total constructed area is of 1,500 sqm, the court has 9 ha.
The house is positioned within a 1.5 ha natural park with a lake populated with fish, diverse forest vegetation, ornamental vegetation.
It is said that Romano family history began in 1821 when Tudor Vladimirescu's revolution started in Oltenia. Because he needed help, he was decided to seek the support of seven brothers from Russia, the Romanov brothers - unrelated to the Russian imperial family, whom he met after they fought alongside the army of Tsar Alexander I.  These have reached the mioritical lands settling in Plesoiu. 
After being confiscated in 1949 by a Stalinist decree, the mansion was originally a camp for pioneers, March 2, 1949. It was later IAS trust and school for children with disabilities. The communist regime confiscated the property and Emil Bobu a communist official, Minister of Internal Affairs during 1973-1975 and secretary CC of the RCP, lived here. After 1989 he was sentenced to life imprisonment for "participation in the genocide of Romanian nation." From 1987 until 1990 was the secret home of Emil Barbulescu ,nephew of Nicolae Ceausescu.
Moreover, Barbulescu was arrested on the lakeside of the mansion. Emil Barbulescu, Helen Barbulescu's son (Nicolae Ceausescu's sister) was, in 1989, militia captain and first deputy chief of Inspectorate of the Interior Ministry, of Olt County. From 1990 to 1998 it was management location for various lessors.
Today, the mansion is completely restored, since 2012. The villa itself is developed mainly on the basement and ground floor, with an emphasis tower facing the main access road. The decorative elements, of stucco and wood speak abundantly about the neo-Romanian style, as if breathing from the every inner or outer feature of the villa.



