The fortified manor Călățeanu is built in the early century. XIX by Căleţeanu nobleman who was ensign in the army of Tudor Vladimirescu (1780-1821). It is placed in a strategic and dominant position near the place where the is located the Roman fort Acidava. The fortified manor had as element of a defense a precinct wall, which is well preserved to the north and west sides, where there is the entry-arch, built of masonry. Inside the fortified manor has a rectangular swing with a large vaulted cellar. On the second level there is a terrace, on the third level is, also placed a a terrace with veranda, with three cylindrical columns and arches on each side, which gives a special image particularly to sobriety of other buildings of the same kind. Later it became the property of family of the boyar lady Miteasca. She never had children and no one heard from her after it was expropriated in 1947, then arrested. In the house has operated the city IAS, for a period. Then, the property was claimed by a family in Craiova, but all 300 hectares of arable land and 150 hectares of forest were sold later. Now nobody knows who owns the house.
Legends say that the property area would be haunted by the spirit of, the boyar lady Miteasca. 
The village is mentioned in the statistics and catagraphies from the early nineteenth century ( years 1814.1831, 1832, 1838) in the administrative nomenclature of 1861. Near the town Enosesti , on a promontory which issued from the right terrace of river Olt , was built the Roman camp of Acidava. The Roman fortress, situated on the road Romula-Rusi- dava, mentioned in the Tabula Peutingeriana, took its name from a Dacian settlement located nearby. The archaeological excavations carried out between 1975 - 1978 showed that the first fortification, represented by a castrum made of ground, was built immediately after the Roman conquest, it is then converted into a fortress with brick wall, whose thickness vary between 1, 80 to 1.90 m and had a square shape with sides of about 60 m. It seems to have been built by Cohors I Flavia Comma-genorum. To the west of fortification is a large civil settlement, mentioned since the nineteenth century by Tocilescu as having a polygonal shape, with the side of 100 m, and being reinforced ditch and wave for defense. In 1913 it was discovered a hoard of 152 staggered dinars from Domitian to Caracalla. From archaeological excavations, but also from accidental discoveries, come more coins  from Traian, Faustina I, Lucilla, Septimius Severus, Severus Alexander (issued at Nicaea), as well as from Constantine the Great and Constantine II. The last ones being dated between 330-335, show a living after leaving Dacia.









