The church of "Assumption of the Virgin" in Leleasca, Urși, dates from 1814,  being listed as a historical monument. The most important changes brought to the abode aimed at the restauration during from March to October 2001, involving plastering, painting and restoration of the painting.
Assumption of the Virgin is the feast day in memory of the data Virgin Mary died. It is celebrated by Orthodox and Catholics each year on August 15th. This celebration is popularly known as Uspenia (Slavic term) or St. Mary. 
About the Assumption of the Virgin we do not have information in the Holy Gospels, but only in the tradition of the Church. According to this tradition, the Virgin had been informed by an angel about her move in this life. The same tradition says that the Apostles, who were at that moment in different parts of the world, were brought onto clouds to be present at this event. By divine providence, Apostle Thomas was not present at the funeral, arriving three days later. He asked to open her tomb to kiss her hands, but entering the tomb, he found it empty. This tomb was found in Jerusalem, although there are people who say that Mary had died in Ephesus, the place where she spent many years after the Ascension.
The Orthodox Church claims that Mary was born with original sin and received forgiveness for this sin when she agreed to give birth to Christ. 
Assumption of the Virgin is the oldest feast dedicated to the Virgin Mary, although evidence about its existence we have only since the fifth century century, when the cult of the Virgin begins to develop very much, especially after the Fourth Ecumenical Council, Synod which decided that Mary is the Mother of God, the cult of the Virgin Mary now knowing a great development. In the fifth century, the feast of the Assumption is safety in Syria, being mentioned in documents dating from this century. 
In the late sixth century, the feast is mentioned in the West, first at St. Gregory, the bishop of Tours (593 or 594) with the exception that there the Assumption of the Virgin was celebrated on different dates from the tradition of the East, on January 18th, and in some parts, on January 15th. It seems that the generalization of Dormition in the East is due to Byzantine Emperor Maurice (528-603), who rebuilt the Church of Our Lady of Gethsemane and who definitively fixed the date of the celebration on August 15th.
In the West, the feast was generalized a bit later by Pope Theodore I (642-649), who was originally from Jerusalem, who imposed August 15th as the date to celebrate the Assumption, as in the East.
Only Gaul christians and Egyptian Copts are still celebrating the Assumption, on old date, ie on January 18th.

