Tuzla of Shabla is located on approximately 250 acres and lies about 6 km east of the town of Shabla. The lake is completely separated from the sea, with a width of approximately 80 m sand. It is the Salt Lake - lagoon, formed mainly by infiltration of seawater salty sand dunes that separates it from the sea. Its average depth is 0.6 m; average salinity is 0.004.
Tuzla outskirts of Shabla is covered with reeds, the remaining part is covered with salt-loving algae. Origin and environment characteristic of Tuzla shows that this small lake is a unique coastal ecosystem with an extremely rich world of flora and fauna. Here we can find 13 species of rare and endangered species included in the Red Book of Bulgaria. They identified 41 species of bird’s nests.
In the water balance of Lake Shabla participate salty waters of both sea and fresh groundwater whose level of Sarmatian limestone are surfacing here. Thanks to the feeding ground, even in very arid years the comprehensive amount of water above the sludge remains, although size remains docked in, preventing it from oxidation. Conditions for the formation of sludge in Tuzla of Shabla are very favorable. For millennia aquatic flora and fauna have contributed to medical mud with unique qualities. A high sensitivity of the west coast erosion secures the necessary quantities of sludge with fine-grained clay material. On the other hand, the small size of the lake basin and oxidation strong excitations do not admit to be linked to the top layer of the mud.
Bulgaria has the widest application estuary mud. Limans is generated in large lakes and sedimentary materials in the formation of mud and microorganisms participating. Extracting sludge from warehouse is in different modes - from manual to mechanical primitive. Firth mud is created annually between 1 and 3 mm, healing mud of the sea that has a positive impact on muscolo-skeletal system diseases, cardiovascular, neurological, gynecological, skin and other diseases.
Compared with other slurry storage in our lakes, coastal Shabla lake is distinguished by its extremely high qualities and uniformity. Its stocks determined with a precision high enough layer of mud after izopowers amounted to about 200,000 tonnes.

