The Thracian fortress, from late antique, medieval and Ottoman, called Kale is a cultural monument of historical significance. Architectural excavations began in 1961 and were discovered internal and external fences from late antiquity, with separate spaces between them. The outer city wall includes two basilicas. In south-eastern slope are discovered archaeological materials of the Thracian settlement. After it, during the Roman era there was a stage associated with the exploitation of minerals and searching for gold, but the fortifying of the city and village reconstruction occurred in the centuries IV-V. Were found detailed architectural columns.
There are various collections of materials - ceramics, bricks, tools, weapons, coins. The fortress is on a forested hill. This amounts to the north with a wall and with the natural park Berkovitsa. The road leads from green hill in to the city center. From marble bridge from the river Berkovska besides the hotel restaurant - "Marble" on a paved road on a meadow, where is the hunting lodge. It was built by the hunting company Berkovitsa and is one of the most popular places to relax. On the lawn at the hunting lodge go up through the pine forest and reach a clearing where there is an archaeological exhibition hall. Above is a tree which once served as a fortress, and today released the basis of archaeological city. Berkovitsa Kale is known since the last century. Was noted, for the first time by Felix Kanitz.
 Konstantin Irecek reported remains of walls from Berkovska . Václav Dobruský also writes about Berkovitsa and Boris Dyakovich describes them in detail and make the first sketch. Drilling of studies and excavations are made since 1961 under the leadership of Prof. Dimitrina Dzhonova. Today, Berkovitsa Kale is studied much more. A strange parapet from the late antiquity, has surfaced, almost entirely. Located on one of the edges of the hill, it is built of stone and white mortar paste. It has a thickness of 1.3 m. At different distances from it was built a second wall, interior, which has the same composition and thickness. Between the two walls are separate rooms. The fortified gate has not yet been discovered. Perhaps it is the north, where the city wall was completely destroyed. This damage was probably done in 1876-1877, when the Turks mobilized the population of Berkovitz to build the road to the castle and the shaft on the second wall of the city. The shaft for placing cannons.
Felix Kanitz wrote that "the hill on which stands the fortress was surrounded by a redoubt." From late antiquity belong to both churches built outside the city wall. Ednata - southern slope is a nave and the apse, an outdoor veranda. The apse (altar space) exterior, is triangular, semicircular and with sintron but inside has place for the throne and naves separated by masonry pillars.
The organic connection between the basilica and the city wall was made by a fragment of inscription (according Dimitrina Dzhonova) which refers to the times of Honorius and Theodosius II (408-421 AD). Plastika – architectural bases of marble, fragments, columns, fragments of trapezes, talk about the a rich interior. Interesting is the baptistery built as a separate building for baptism. At the eastern end of the fortress it is, completely revealed, another early Christian basilica which also has three ships. The central nave has a wide semicircular apse, the nave from north is divided into two parts and the one from the south, probably, was not found. To the west are three narthex rooms. The date of construction of this church is defined by its constructive relationship with the outer fortification wall, which is in the early Vth century.
Architectural complex of Late Antiquity was cleaned to the west. To the northeast and north, where the castle is most easily accessible are remnants of the trench. After the destruction of the fortress in Late Antiquity (probably after Justinian), fortifications were built here barely during the Second Bulgarian Empire. From this period have been unearthed, so far, only a few walls in the western sector of the city and the fortification facility of the third terrace, on the highest part of the hill. It has a rectangular shape with a thickness of 2 m, walls of stone and earth, with wooden belts. Materials and coins from the reign of Ivan Sratsimir were found here and are from the XIVth century. Fortress Berkovitz had visual contact with many cities along AUGUSTA, Botunya and Zlatitsa and with a good signal were easily included in the defensive action.

