Table tennis sport club "Danube" Russian is one of the oldest tennis clubs in Bulgaria. Since its foundation, it has become one of the most important centers of the sport in Bulgaria. The Club has given many good competitors who have brought fame to the club and Bulgaria in international competitions.

Establishing club has its origins in the distant year 1930. We will always remember the first competitors and coaches, Lyuben Bochev, Agop Gyureyhan, Atanas Atanasov, Yanakiev vessel. The popularity of this sport comes from the only organization of its kind, international tournament osmometry in the world, which lasted more than half a century. It was attended by teams even from other continents - Korea, Cuba.

Pride club's coach Ara Papazyan, competitors Ana-Mariya Hristova, Violeta Nikov, Nikolina Kotseva, Sonya Nankov, Krasimra Sabeva Mustafa Sadakov Petar Mitev, Sergey Ribanchov, Vasil Todorov, Petar Petrov. Currently, one of our best competitors are Teodor Yordanov, Stefan Lavcheiv, Sibel Ismailova and others.

Club activity is focused on two main areas:
1. Popularization of the table tennis among children and adults, offering the possibility both children and adults to practice this beautiful sport.
2. Development of high sports mastery, leading to the creation of new good athletes to represent the country at the championships successfully and to be included in the various teams of the Bulgarian Table Tennis Federation, presenting well at international competitions.
It is significant that in the last 2-3 years, the club was one of the best clubs in the country represented by many podium places in various age groups.
Sibel Ismailova won championship titles for girls and women, both at the individual and doubles and mixed doubles. At the Turkey and the Balkan Championship in 21 years, it was the silver medalist.
Awards won and Paul Tsolov in adolescents in individual and doubles championships.
Women's team won two consecutive years of silver medals, while the male was ranked 5 in the former shock league.

The hall works every day 17:00 -20:00 with sports fans - Monday to Friday. Saturdays and Sundays from 14: 00-20: 00. 4 lv. h / 2 leva per person /. Everyone must wear sneakers or rubber inside. If needed, the room can provide missiles.

