 
The  Hadji Nikoli Inn is a buiding with an architectonical and historical value, which are among the main attractions of the Veliko Tirnovo city. It has been built in 1858 - 1862, by Kolyo Ficheto, inside the old Samovodska Bazar, on a  steep slope to south. 
 
The Hadji Nikoli Inn is a valuable example of public monumetal architecture in the late period of Bulgarian Renaissance and an undeniable architectural masterpiece. It was declared a historical and architectural monument of culture of national importance.  
 
Hadji Nikoli Inn's unique complex is currently in its original form and enjoys its new life with authenticity and modern comfort. After a long time restoration, The Hadji Nikoli Inn opened in March 2010, as a kind of cultural center - a complex of exhibition halls, a museum and art gallery, restaurant and wine bar.  
The real estate is built on request of the famous tradesman in Tirnovo and active participant in the battle for religious independence of Hadji Nikoli's Inn. Dimov Minchoolu is the one of the most famous and prominent personalities of the Tirnovo city, fur trader, in the nineteenth century and the famous and prominent godfather of Vasil Karagiozov. Hadji Nikoli had business houses in Ruse, Bucharest, Viena, Odessa, Istanbul. He is a remarcable patriot. He spent all his fortune (over 500.000 cash in gold) to support the struggle of Bulgarian people for the church independence.  
In the rooms made of stone the prominent tradesman Hadji Nikoli stores goods made and imported from Western Europe and Middle East, as well as  craftsmen cloth, silversmiths, coppersmiths and others. The building was used for storage of goods imported from Europe and Middle East, by the craftsmen from  Tirnovo City, and later have been developed  tailorings and other workshops inside it. The premises in the southwest wing were full of stores. A few years before Liberation, the building was used as a tobacco processing factory, owned by industrialist Slavcho Hadzhipaskalev. After Liberation, separate rooms are used for years as workshops for small craftsmen.  
According to the construction plan, the Inn of Hadji Nikoli has a large volume, despite its location on steep terrain with 9 m difference in altitude of the land. The narrow longitudinal yard is enclosed on all three sides: to northeast - with a multieveled wing on the groundfloor, southeast - with a single wing on the groundfloor and southwest - with shops and workshops on the gound level.  The evidence that there was a two-story wing and in the northvwest there is an old photo of Constantin Irecek under investigtion. The northeast and southeast are developed as caravanserai in a longitudinal row of rooms,  connected through a narrow corridor opened  to the yeard. The southwest wing, considering his manner of building, was built and  subsequently changed,  consists of rooms overlooking the street, with a passage courtyard. 
The construction of all wings is massive, built of brick, stone and iron, as it was necessary at that time to preserve assets and commercial production, very few building met that criteria of building. For the same purpose and safety all windows of the inn have iron shutters and doors are entirely of iron in basements or covered with tin on levels. The shops were closed with big shutters like harmonics. 
The Inn is one of the greatest achievments of Nikola Ficheto. It is arranged on the steep ground  but less deep,with steps, treated facades, typical architectural motifs and concave profiles of cornices, parapets and stone base, elliptical line, arches, and arcades. Stone detail of cornice and column capitals/heads are stylized. 
Until now the Hadji Nikoli Inn has undergone several changes. In 1929 the southwestern wing is affected due to street rebuilding, according to the plan from 1907and old Post Office construction. Dismantled stone columns were aligned on the walls of shops, it was built then a stone wall overstructured with  elliptical blind arcades and wooden eaves, and the shops were turned into garages. In some rooms were closed arcades  and the floorings were placed on the floors, considering their use for bekyarski 's housing. 
From 1970 untill 1987, the building is decorated in order to Exposing the Museum "Revival", in the city of Veliko Tirnovo, after then the main building  was secured by the National Museum of Architecture and the AEK Shops in the "Samovod Bazar ". 
In 1992, the Inn has been returned to the heirs of Hadji Nikoli Minchovich according to the restitution laws.  
 

