The historical reservation Tekir Dere is located near Svishtov city. This is the place the Russian troops landed during the Russian-Turkish war.  There are benches and horses there. In the honour of the of the Russian soldiers were placed commemorative markers. The area was declared historical reservation in 1969. 
 
If you are heading to Svishtov from the east, the road near the Danube, very close after Vardim village, will take you close to the place “The Monuments”. Here in the valley of the small river Tekir Dere and the surrounding area, in 1877, was the Turkish camp. From this exact place started marching the Russian troops who came to help the Bulgarian people.  
 
The forcing of the river was assigned to general Dragomirov, who at the beginning of the invasion turned to his troops saying: “Entire Russia is watching us. For us is neither a wing, nor an edge. It’s just war. Either over the Danube or in the Danube”.  
As result following the landing of the Russian troops and the bloody fights with the Turkish troops, Svishtov becomes the first freed city. 
 
The idea of commemorating the Russian support in the War between 1877 and 1878 as well as the 812 people killed here was spontaneous and of course among the soldiers and officers still under a war situation. The building of the monuments started in 1878 with 165 thousand roubles allocated by the Russian emperor. Very soon seven obelisks are raised, six with a 2.40 m height and the seventh, centrel, having 4.50 m. They were all made of marble in a marble workshop in Odessa. Their shape is not significantly different of the classic shape of a tomb.  The decorations consist in flowers, carved in stone, bushes, creepers, birds and crosses.  The following inscription is carved on the monument “54th Minsky Regiment”, prapor. Kanenberg, stadt capitan Petrov “54 Regiment Volyskyi Regiment stadt Cap. Bryanov”, “54 Minsky pol. prapor. Ryshkin”,”53 Reg. infant. prapor. Fedorov”, For the Russian soldiers fallen in the war field on June 15th 1877”.
 
A few years later in 1881 –  at the idea of the Committee for the assistance of the war victims presided by Stoyan Zaimov, a few hundred meters away from the Fraternal Mogilă there is a monument dedicated to the Russian emperor Alexandr the 2nd – the Liberator. On the 11 m height and 5.5 m wide monument is represented the Russian coat of arms and is engraved the following inscription: “In the Russian Kingdom (Въ Царствоване руссiкого) Emperor Alexander the 2nd, June 15th (юния) 1877 “. 
 
At the 100 anniversary of the landing of the Russian troops and the liberation of Svishtov city from the ottoman domination, the city council decided to build a new monument. The new monument was built between 1978-1979 following the design of Emil Dulev, Arh. Dimitar Krastev and the sculptor Dimitar Banovska. 
 
The new monument is 24 m high and 7.5 m wide. It represents two raised arms forming an arch and inside is represented a scene with Russian soldiers with armours on natural scale.   
 
Since 1969 the valley of Tekir Dere river was declared historic reservation and because of the commemorative monuments the population started to call the area “The Monuments”. 
 
Today the only silent witness of the Russian liberation is a small mill built at the mouth of Tekir Dere river.  The rehabilitated mill is hosting a museum with an exhibition dedicated to the landing of the Russian troops on the Bulgarian coast and the liberation of Svishtov city from the ottoman oppression.
 
 “The Monuments” – well-kept despite the remote distance from the city is the favourite place for recreation and walking of   Svishtov inhabitants. 

