The beginnings of the museum in Gorna Oryahovitsa were in 1962. The structure of the museum includes a “History” department with the following specialization: Archeology, Etnography, Tourism, Founds, Scientific Archive. A library with more that 5000 volumes functions here. The museum has a stand with souvenirs, promotional materials and books.   
The Histoy Museum - Gorna Oryahovitsa was awarded the best museum title in 2009, in Central Stara Planina Mountins at the Regional Touristics Association   "Stara Planina". 
The Histoy Museum - Gorna Oryahovitsa keeps the patrimony of the city in 6 sections:
- arheologie, etnography, Renaissance, learning, the national liberation fight and the day-to day life of the old city.    The museum holds an annual series of thematic exhibitions that present attractive forgotten and little known facts and expose the history and lifestyle of the city.
On May 30th, 2015 the museum opened a new exhibition dedicated to the most famous local delicacies - Gorna Oryahovitsa sausages. The exhibition presents original preserved objects and photographs, History famous sausage centuries - the first recipes for cooking with a geographical indication in 2011.
Gorna Oryahovitsa's central position and proximity to the city of Veliko Tarnovo old Bulgarian capital, are the factors that determine the archaeological treasures found in the city. Besides Ryahovets Fortress, the archetype of the city in the last 20 years, regular archaeological excavations have revealed another 7 landmarks. The findings are the most attractive part of the museum. It is one of the oldest photographic studios preserved in the authentic appearance of the nineteenth century.
The focus of the museum is the participation of Gorna Oryahovitsain to the city revolt in April 1876 as the first district revolutionary capital. Also, the historical museum holds an annual series of thematic exhibitions that present attractive forgotten and little known facts and expose the history and lifestyle of the city History Museum. In 2007 a series with the vices of the citizens was presented, in 2008 Habits of the citizens, 2009 Traditional crafts of the citizens of Gorna Oryahovitsa.
The museum often presents its own collections of postcards, watches, calendars, radios, medals and railway accessories.   
 

