Near the village Galiche, the community Byala Slatina, the municipality Vratsa in 1918 it was discovered the silver treasure. According to the information which is hardly verifiable, a woman accidentally found 24 golden silver applications – pumps (small round plateaus), but before the authorities officially understood that in fact there were only 14 pieces. Finally, they have been classified according to the regulations of the National Museum of Archeology from that period. The historians and the archeologists have classified them as toreuți Thracians or named in the pre-Roman period also according with other monuments: Seuthopolis Kabyle, the tombs from Kazanlak and Sveshtari, the treasures from Panaghiuriște, Yakimovo, Kraljevo and Ravnogor and others. The lance is from the 2nd century b. Chr. But it hasn’t been established with ambiguity if it was buried by the local Thracians during the times of the Celtic invasion (from the 2nd century b. Chr.) or later on, during the times of the Roman conquest.
The pumps themselves, most likely, are produced on a local plan, executed from the preformed matrix. All of them are prominent, and most of them they are decorated with floral elements – leaves and bows, but only on two of the pumps there are other images – on one of them a woman, and on the other one – a horseman.
The figure in relief of female gender, most likely of goddess, is on most the part the pump with a diameter of 18, 3 cm. Her hair is braided in two long braids and her entire neck is well enclosed from 8 cervical circles (torkvi), placed one above the other. The coat has the slightly lowered braces with a cleavage and they are additionally decorated with triangles. The dress has more coiled creases on the chest and sumptuously suggests that she is the goddess of fertility. Alongside her shoulder there are two birds – most likely vultures or hawks. Their feet are in the air, despite the fact that their wings don’t open.
The hair style with torkvi hasn’t been found at other feminine images from Misia and, consequently, it is looked as the signs of a different ethnicity and with a Celtic influence.

