In the ancient establishment Ohoden there were found the remains of the houses, of the tombs and of the cult equipment which are part from the so-called Neolithic, Monochrome. The most interesting discoveries are the four tombs from the early Neolithic with the people buried in them of different ages; the sanctuary of the Sun and three deer heads (the deer is one of the biggest symbols of the human from the Ancient history).
The Neolithic establishment from the proximity of the Ohoden area dates back to the IVth century b. Chr. and it is among the oldest human establishments found in Europe. Situated in “Valog” (the “Inferior Arch”), in the proximity of the village Vratsa. The study has been executed by the science people from the Regional History Museum from Vratsa from 2002, and the diggings are performed by the archeologist George Ganetsovski, who published a part of the discoveries. There were found the ruins of the Ancient temple of the fertility, the base accommodations, the cemetery and diverse material traces.
The sacred complex was localized in the center of a pre-historical establishment, and in its necropolis there were discovered the old human skeletons of approximately 8 thousand years. According to the archeologists, the sanctuary is unique and until present none of them resembles familiar in Bulgaria. The analysis of the artifacts suggests the fact that the establishment belongs to the early Neolithic culture Gradeshnitsa – Karcha developed in a closed area between Yantra and at south from the river Timok and in Oltenia in the south – west of Romania.
In 2016 there were discovered the artifacts coming from the obsidian diggings from Hungary and Armenia. The importance of continuing the new discoveries made that the Balkan Peninsula to become the center of the pre-historical civilization, which was established on the grounds of Europe.
In the year 2011, when there were made the archeological diggings of the area, there was discovered the ancient altar decorated with a trophy of immense deer horns. The sanctuary is situated at approximately a distance of 2 meters near the skeleton of a man discovered in the diggings from 2010. Most likely there are glorified his hunting facts. The deer is one of the strongest symbols of masculinity and of fertility.
By the observation of the celestial light, the pre-historical people from here were most likely oriented when there is the best time for insemination and harvesting. They brought sacrifices and presents for fertility.
The floor of a pre-historical building was discovered with a rock pavement which has the shape of a U, facing towards East, towards the East of the Sun. Here there are found dozens of clay and stone disks which in the semantics of the first agriculturalists symbolize the solar disk. This fact strengthens the beliefs of the archeologist according to whom it is, most likely, one of the oldest temples dedicated to the Sun, at which there were dedicated the people from the Antiquity. The discovery is unprecedented in the world and it has a great importance as a symbol of the solar cult and of the fertility, disclosing the key moments of the birth of religion.

