The museum is situated in the native house of Filip Simidov, a remarkable personality of the Renaissance period. Of interest among the collections there are the authentic jewelries, ceramic bowls, a marble statue of the Great Pastor and marble cross from the 4th century.
Created in 1938 by Nicolas Kotzev, today the History Museum is proud with a collection of over 4500 exhibits. Of a unique nature is the statue “Good Shepherd” and the stone cross from the forth century – wonderful examples of the early Christian art. The statue the “Good Shepherd” participated at two international exhibits organized at Rome and at Brussels. The museum is sheltered in the house of the Renaissance activist Philip Simidov, declared a cultural monument. It is a city house with two floors, built in the XIXth century in the late Baroque style. The exhibits are disposed in three rooms. Between these, two are permanent exhibits – “Archeology” and “Renaissance”. In the third room there are temporary exhibits on diverse themes.
The Ethnography House of the History Museum – the City Oriahovo
The ethnography house in a Renaissance style is part of the colored old bazaar from Oryahovo. Recovered in 1989, this kept its Renaissance style. Here the visitors can be familiarized with the traditions of the region Oriahovo, presented within the exhibit “the popular and cultural customs” and the “Urban and the cultural life from the XIXth century and the beginning of the XXth century”. In the third room it is situated the temporary exhibit dedicated to the popular musician and composer Diko Iliev. There are presented numerous photographs which reflect the life and the work of the beloved author by all the Bulgarians, of the “Danube Dance”. In the ethnographical house you can see paintings and sculptures from the art collection “Prof. Marin Varbanov” (department of the museum). In 2007 it was opened a new hall in the municipal building from the city Oriahovo, which is established for an art gallery.

