1682, Prince Serban Cantacuzino raised a stately stone cross, right on the place where the battle was won.
On the inner sides of the cross can be seen the fight worn by the prince.
As time passed, a village arose close to the monument,  now called the Stone Cross, part of Calugareni town, ounty of Giurgiu.
In 1862, for protection, the monument is framed into a chapel,  that has side windows and a roof of lead sheet.
Calugareni monument remembers us about the fight 13 to - 23 August 1595.
Wallachian army led by Prince of Romanian Michael the Brave, strengthened by several Transylvanian sent by Sigismund Bathory, tried to stop the invading Ottoman army led by Sinan Pasha, whose objective was to transform the Romanian Land in  a pashalic.
Michael operation failed, it was followed by capturing the Bucharest capital by Turks and tactical Michael's retreat  in the mountains. Subsequently, reinforced with a larger army, Mihai had to remove the Ottomans, defeating them decisively in the battle of Giurgiu, in the middle of October 1595.
Net favorable balance of forces was the Ottoman army. Nicolae Balcescu, citing contemporary sources show: "Indeed, the [Sinan]'s army was, as we know, of 180 mii soldiers, more than ten times that of  Mihai Voda, which, although all aid he received from Moldova and Transylvania barely amounted 16 thousand and 12 cannons”.
Regarding the Christian army manpower, we can say that Mihai Viteazul had under his  command more than 10,000 troops and an artillery park composed of 12 large field cannons. 
The official chronicle speaks about 8.000 Wallachian and 2.000 Hungarian. This balance of forces net unfavorable to Allies explains the choice of the prince for the land located south from Calugareni, that was  wooded, swampy, crossed by Neajlov River, wherein attacker's movement could be done only on a single road with a must point for crossing the narrow bridge  over the river. 
In this space, the numerical superiority of the Turks could not be recovered, the land configuration requiring attack in waves, without possible broad deployment on the wings. 
A number of 7.000 Ottomans fell on the battlefield, and their cannons and green flag of the prophet fell into the Romanian hands.
By Calugareni victory, Mihai had managed to achieve the main goals: had caused important losses to enemy, demoralized him and delayed the advancement of the Turks and won the time necessar for concentrating Ottoman forces. 

