Founded by Constantin Serban Basarab, the Saint office for worship from Dobreni Village was built between 1642-1646 , inauguratd on 15 August 1645 and  is dedicated to "Assumption". 
Constantin Șerban Basarab, also called  numit și Cârnul (had his nose cut), was  ruler of Wallachia between 19 of April 1654 - 26th of January 1658. Located on the right bank of Cociocului, the Church, a ship-shaped building is an imposing building with a length of 19 m, a width of 9 m and a height of 17 m.
It is built traditionally, with its east side arranged in a semicircle, with one tower situated on the narthex, originally served as a steeple to which access was done through a door located in the narthex and a wooden spiral staircase. 
The outside decorations consisted of models, arcades executed in plaster arranged on two rows and separated by a belt.  The windows and front door are placed in stone frames carved with geometric patterns and wrought iron grilles and the door is of solid wood.  
Because the structural frame of the old belfry could no longer support the church's bell, it was built a new belfry in 1935 at the entrance to the church's courtyard, the belfry  adorned with beautiful paintings. 
The church steeple consists of two steps, the first step is square-shaped, it continues with a second step octagonal shaped, whose roof is dome shaped. The latter was originally built of brick, but, because it has been destroyed in an earthquake, it was rebuilt in wood covered with iron. 
The floor of the church is made of stone, and in the narthex is one part of the original painting distinguished on the northern wall, a votive painting depicting Constantin Serban and along with his wife and daughter supporting in their hands a picture of the church. Also in the narthex on the floor next to the eastern wall is the tomb of Ilinca, Constantin's mother, tomb over which is placed a ledger.
During the period 1982-1984 were carried out works to strengthen the church severely affected by the earthquake in 1977, achieving three reinforced concrete belts joined by 14 pillars of support.
The nave is separated from narthex by two massive brick columns supporting the main steeple. 
In the nave and altar the original painting is no longer preserved, the current one dating from 1899. It was repainted in the years 1989-1996.
The restoration of the original painting in the narthex, started in 1998, a process that ended in 2009. The painting is of a rare beauty like the  famous monasteries of northern Moldova.
Over time Church has undergone extensive adorning and beauty repairs which makes it a living testimony of "dobrenari" souls beauty over centuries and why not of    the Romanians.

