It was erectd in1976 in the memeory of Vlad Țepes.
Vlad Țepes was born in Sighisoara Fortress in the Transylvanian Principality born as the son of Vlad Dracul and a Transylvanian noble woman. 
He was marrie three times: first with a Transylvanian noble woman - Cneajna Bathory, then with Jusztina Szilagyi and then with Ilona Nelipic, Matei Corvin cosin.
He had five children, four boys and one girl: Radu and Vlad from his first marriage, Mihail and Mihnea cel Rău from the second one and Zaleska from the third.
During his reign, Wallachia has temporarily obtained its independence towards the Ottoman Empire. 
In 1453, the remains of the Byzantine Empire are conquered by the Ottomans, who obtained thus the control over the Constantinopole (now Istanbul) and were threatening the Europe.

The Ottoman Empire  get to master much of the Balkans (current territories of Serbia, partially Hungary, partially Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and Greece), expanding to the West stopping at the gates of Vienna, whose siege fails. 
In this historical context, Vlad Tepes fought to defend his kingdom and his country, using methods of deterrence against the enemy which included executions and torture, exemplary and deterrent.
soon became famous because of his brutal methods of punishment. According to the Saxons detractors of Transylvania, he often ordered that convicted to be skinned, boiled, decapitated, blinded, strangled, hanged, burned, roasted, chopped, nailed, buried alive etc.. Also, the convicted were cut nose, ears, genitals and tongue. But the favorite ordeal was impale,  from where the nickname Tepes came, who impale. This form of execution used it in the years 1457, 1459 and 1460 against Transylvanian merchants who failed to comply with his trade laws. The incursions which he did against the Transylvanian Saxons were both were acts of protectionism intended to promote commercial activities in the Romanian Country. In addition, at that time it was customary for the pretenders to the throne of Romanian country to find support in Transylvania, where they were waiting for the right time to act.
He was assassinated in late December 1476. His body was decapitated and his head sent to the Sultan, which has placed a stake as proof of the triumph against Vlad Tepes. The hypothesis according to which „Draculea“ was buried in Snagov Monastery on an island near Bucharest are false. The recent examinations have shown that the Impaler's "grave" from the monastrey contains only a few horse bones dated back in Neolithic and not the true remains of the Wallachian prince.  In the opinion of renowned historian Constantin Rezachevici, his grave would be on the site of Comana Monastery the prince's foundation.


