The Watchmaker Tower is remnant of the period when the Ottoman Empire ruled the Danube port.
The public watch, was the highest construction in town at that time and arranged in geometric center of the territory, it is today considered to be a rarity.
The tower  was under Turkish rule for 30 years, but it was built after plans of European origin of the strategists of that time. It is not a Turkish architecture, a design inspired by French style architecture, built in 1771 in a form different from that of today, the tower was part of the fortification system of the city. It was the main point of surveillance above the advancing enemy armies because it was the tallest building in the area. 
There were similar towers and other cities of the Ottoman Empire in countries such as Bulgaria, Albania or today Serbia for instance. Most of them were destroyed by demolition even by the inhabitants of cities immediately after the wars of independence led by those states with the Ottoman Empire. For these reasons, it a rarity in the south-eastern Europe. 
Restored several times during modern wars to whom it survived, the tower has undergone some changes until the First World War. Since then, much of the city was affected by a fire, and with it, the top of the tower.
The clock was added to surveillance tower in XIXth century, once out from under Turkish rule. The original clock was replaced starting with the restorations in 2005, the original clock being in the custody of the couty Museum of History  “Teohari Antonescu” from Giurgiu.
Construction of the tower has a peculiarity, a hexagonal plan, a construction which surrounds the base where the have also worked Municipality, police or firefighters over time. The last use and the actual one was that acquired by space concession of its base for pubs and cafes. Today something like that was temporarily rebuilt around the tower.
However it is crooked, a construction defect. It has an inclination of several degrees, although it not the Tower from Pisa. 
The one using the Clock Tower as a landmark of modern urban systematization of Giurgiu, author of th City Plan,  was an Austrian engineer Morris Van Ott. 
The clock Tower  came into reconsolidation in the late 2005, and the works were completed in 2007. On this occasion, the clock tower was replaced with a new one  the original being preserved  by the Museum of History "Teoharie Antonescu" from the city of Giurgiu.
Nowadays, the clock tower is the symbol of the city of Giurgiu, this monument is represented on the county's coat of arms.

