The specialty papers, records that the Church dedicated to the Assumption of Mary was built between 1840-1852  in the place where it is today.
The church plan is basilically style, with towers on the nave and porch, built of red brick with mortar on a stone foundation.
This stone used in the foundation of the church was taken from Giurgiu fortress walls, as we found out from a approval given by the General Kiseleff in 1832.
The construction bears the specifics of Byzantine architecture, characterized by straight lines and circle round arches, thick walls, square pillars, large windows and domes with spherical shape, having at the time of construction the specific air of the era it was built.  The church undergoes some changes in the first half of the twentieth century.
In 1930 the bell tower and rectory building are repaired. 
The appearance it has today the cathedral it seems we owe it to the architect Penescu and the engineer Ciulei from Bucharest. They have built in 1935, in Giurgiu, the warehouses in the central square, and the building of the Court of Alei Park.
The original painting which adorned the walls of the old church was painted in oil, in the manner of decadent school after Gh. Tattarescu by painter Nicolae Pitaru. The mural painting existing today in fat tempera executed in Neobyzantine style, was painted by Nicolae Stoica between 1939-1959. Its restoration was carried out between 1989-2005 by Drejoi Ion Nicolae Stoica's apprentice. 
The iconostasis, carried out in Baroque style with oil painting, dating from the nineteenth century, it is the work of painter Nicolae Pitaru. This was going at the beginning on the entire width of the church, covering the three apses. It had twelve big icons. It has undergone some changes in the summer of 1948, by reducing its size to the existing ones.
It acquires the title of the cathedral  from ancient times.
This title was borne with dignity until 9th of April 2006 when, by investiture of the first bishop of Giurgiu in the person of Reverend Dr. Ambrose Meleaca, the church  Assumption of the Virgin Mary became an Episcopal Cathedral in the eal sense of the word.
The hardships that Assumption Church passed during the years ended on April 9, 2006 when, in this day of incomparable value and beauty, the Church is officially raised to the rank of Episcopal Cathedral.


