Ascension of the Lord Church from Giurgiu was built in 1939, in the honor of he martyr heroes died in the First World War. 
Ascension of the Lord Church from Giurgiu has a Neoclassic architecture, being built after renowned projects, imitating the structure and form of other religious monuments in the country built for the same purpose - that of honoring the memory of heroes who died for their country.
The paintings in the Church of “Ascension of the Lord” from Giurgiu are quite old, but of a artistic and religious importance. 
Icons Mother of God, but also one that symbolizes the Ascension of the Lord to heaven are just some of the iconic pieces of great importance.
The interior of the Church “Ascension of the Lord” from Giurgiu is quite high, showing large arcades with a well defined frame structure of resistance.
Church tower is quite tall, maybe one of the highest in the whole city of Giurgiu.
Inside the church are the relics of the Holy Martyr Sabina.

The Holy Martyr Sabina was born in Roma at the end of the Ist century and she is the daughter of a very wealthy noble man  called  Herodes. In due time, the parents married her with a young noble man called Valentin, who was a governor senator in Rome.. Widowed very young, Sabina decides not to marry again. Spending her days in the upscale Aventino palace,  on the place where her church is today, Sabina, buys a virgin slave called Serapia. For a long time, Sabina behaved harshly with Serapia, but Serapia endured all wih joy and humility.  Seeing rhe Serapiațs humility, Sabina sked her how can she endure without complaint. Then Serapia confessed that she is a Christian and that Christ, the Lord  strenhtens her to endure all hardships libels and weight work.  Her words full of love, turned  Sabinațs heart to kindness and she wanted to learn more about this religion. Thus, they have retreated to an estate in Umbria preaching the right faith to all virgins, women and widows in that land.
Shortly, the prefect of that place named Berilo has found out and commanded that Serapia to be caught and brought to trial. Strongly refusing to sacrifice herself to the gods, Serapia was tortured being  hit with sticks and burning his body with torches, at the end beheaded  near the Faustinoșs bow on 28 of July. 
Sabina still strongly preached Christ the Saviour, caring for the poor, visiting the sick, and enetering the most notorious places to give hope and expectance to all.
Her attitude has drawn attention of the new prefect called Elpidio, who sent to arrest her and bring to trial in front of him. He threatened her ordering her to abandon the Christian tradition and to sacrifice her to idols. While remaining strong into confession of Jesus Christ, the prefect ordered that St. Sabina's possessions to be confiscated and to be beheaded in front of everyone at the bow of Faustino, the same place where Serapia, her maid  had been martyred. It was in 126 day 29 of Augst.

