In 1966, was inaugurated the current building o the theatre titled the " House Culture ". Several years of cultural emulation, supported by the most important collectives in Bucharest followed: Variety Theater, Operetta Theatre, Romanian Opera, the Philharmonic, the National Theatre, Bulandra Theatre, Nottara Theatre, etc. The big hall with 480 seats, was overcrowded, while the small room housed the town library, moved from an unhealthy space on Garii Street.
In 1981, after establishment of Giurgiu county,  the Bucharest theater "Ion Vasilescu" was transferred here, and actors known as Hamdi Cerchez, Lucia Burcovschi, Stelian Constantin Răşchitor Cremenciuc have become daily travellers to Giurgiu. They are joined soon by Mircea Cretu and his wife Anca Alecsandra, then Vasile Toma, another giurgiuvean man who made the step to the "Mundi" Theatre to his home.
Under the  directorship of Mircea Cretu, the institution changed its name in 1993, becoming the "Vlach" Theater and started to organize the annual "International Festival of theaters in the Danube cities", an event came to the fifteenth edition. Thus, in the first part of each season, on the "Valach" stage ascend remarkable troops such as "Slavija" Theater from Belgrad, "Sava Ognianov" Theater, Ruse Theater, "Sava Dobroplodnie" Theater from Silistra, "Neline" Theater from Bratislava, "Bartok" Theater from Dunaujvaros, and in the country "Masca" Theater from Bucharet, "Maria Filotti" Theater from Braila, "Fani Tardini" Drama Theater from Galati.
The beginning of 2009 brought a notable transformation - the change of status of an institution from one of repertoire in one of project, called to respond to changing market-specific regularities. Despite major financial difficulties and a new approach of the artistic act, opening the 2010-2011 season marked a turning point in the life of giurgiuvean theater, largely due to the vision of the new general manager, playwright and publicist Mircea M. Ionescu. The diversified repertoire, orientation towards the Romanian  drama, and  starting collaboration with leading figures of the national scene and internationally renowned directors have offered more value and attractiveness to giurgiuvean audience rediscovering the pleasure of coming to the theater.
Under the leadership of the playwright Mircea M. Ionescu, the Tudor Vianu Theatre team, made up of beloved actors like Basil Thomas, Mircea Cretu, or Giulia Carla Alecsandra Anca Ionescu, performed on the stage both  locally, within the organized internships every year, and internationnally withinthe fstival.

