In 1756, Memet Efendi built the city  Mosque in Cernavoda. It is said that the mosque was built  with stone brought from an old brodge over the lake of  Carasu, possible the Roman bridge. 
The Mosque was built during the short reign of the sultan Osman III, dedicated or may just may urging, as as the name suggests,  occasionally it is used by „Hunchiar Mosque”. 
In Cernavoda, when liveliest when more lightly the metamorphosis of the past centuries of the city has a a silent witness,  sitting lazily on the edge of time and behind the row of shops. „The Mosque is the past; lies hidden among low houses and massive stone huts, like small prisons with small windows and thick lattices. 
The Cernavoda Mosque was certainly  preceded by other old and smaller mosques. 
In the book of his travels, Seyahatname, Evliya Celebi reminds us about „small mosquey, but nice” from Bogazchioi. The ritual fountain , carved  in a simple cube of limestone, preceds the entry. The mosque's door  call us to a large hall, whereby shoes are dropped,  then enter into the prayer hall or on the stairs in the corner, which goes directly into women's gallery. In the great hall few details individualize Mosque of Cernavoda:  the Mihrab niche has an masonry frame, consisting of two pillars and an arched pediment; mimber's hand-railing, as the one bordering the area on the ground floor  reserved for women, are also in masonry, with large, round perforations. 
The most unique element is the roof, which is not straight, the central part of it being a little high and has a shape of a truncated pyramid. And the minaret at Cernavoda is one of a kind. The same ingenious builders have rounded the balcony of the muezzin, in the form of a swallow's nest, leaped on three successive rows of teeth from plaster. The facades masonry is wrapped in a thin coating, through which the stone blocks are vaguely guessed. 
Two plates with inscriptions, the first one located on the minaret, dating the minaret in 1886, and the second one on the western facade, records the repairs and strengthening made at the mosque. Plaster boodles and concrete belts  embrace the facades, in  a full vernacular consonance with the other components of the building. 
Between the Neolithic couple of the famous Thinkers (so-called from Hamangia, but discovered near the city, on the Sofia hill) and the sole atomic plant in Romania, the modest mosque from Cernavodă keeps a right balance of the history in Dobrogea.
The mosque from Cernavoda,  a construction intended to Muslims worship celebration, is located on the Crisana Sreet.

