The Orthodox Church of Assumption from Constanta is one of the oldest churches in the city, built between 1904 - 1908 by the Anadolchioi villagers. 
The foundation stone was laid in October 1904 and on the consecration of the church  took place in 1908. The church construction was executed by oneself almost all the material being donated by parishioners and other Christians in Constanta.
Construction plan was drawn up by the engineer Dimitrie Bănescu, technical chief of Constanta County. Between the years 1952, 1958, 1964 și 1965 were done general repairs to the roof, wiring and sidewalks.
The belfry is separated from the church  building and was built in 1926, with iron frame. 
In terms of architecture, the "Church of Assumption" has a cross-shape, with  a  large dome in the middle, built in stone and bricks and covered with tin. The church is considered a historical monument of national interest  as well as a gem of Constanța municipality because of the interior painted in fresco technique and ornaments made painstakingly. 
The architect of the church was G. Mandrea and the architectural style is Romanian Byzantine. 
The mural painting in oil was executed around 1914 by the painter Gheorghe Marinescu, a student of the great Nicolae Grigorescu, in Renaissance style. The unique stained glass windows in Constanta can be admired  inside. 
The exterior is decorated with mozaic. The outdoor mosaic, with a surface of 60 square meters, was conducted between 1999-2000 by Gheorghe Firica, the President  of the Union of Artists, Constanta branch, and Marian Deaconu.
The iconostasis is made of carved  wood and richly decorated with vegetal,  motifs,  so rare in Orthodox churches and the stained glass windows used here are unique in Constanta County. 
The painting was restored in 1930 and washed in 1947 and 1962, the last time, things being performed by a group of painters formed of Muscelean Ion, Iuliu Goler and a priest Lembrau Constantin.
The Church is dedicated to the Assumption of the Holy Virgin Mary.
Feast of the Assumption is when the Virgin Mary passes from earthly life to the heavenly one. About Assumption of the Virgin are not recorded information in the Gospels, but in the Holy Tradition of the Church. The Archangel Gabriel brought the Virgin a word that her mission on earth has ended, and she went to the Ghetsimani Garden.  Returning home he said goodbye to loved ones. All the apostles, except Thomas, were brought in the clouds of heaven.  On the way to the grave, a bolder Jew has touched the coffin, wanting to overthrow it. On the spot he lost his hands cut off at the elbows which remain hung by coffin, as it can be seen in the iconographic representation. Saint Apostle Peter has  prayed for the Jew forgiveness, the Jew has healed and asked to be baptized. The next day Toma has come. He wanted to see for the last time the body of the Holy Virgin, but in the tomb, when opened, the body disappeared, was taken by her son to heaven. 

