She-wolf statue from Constanţa is a bronze copy of  the ffamous statue from Rome, Lupa Capitolina. The statue represents the she-wolf, about which legend says  it had breastfed Romulus and Remus.
Sons of Mars, the god of war, and of the priestess Rhea Silvia, they have been distanced from each other by their uncle Amulius. He had taken over by force the ruling of the fortress Alba Longa from his brother and the grandfather of the infants, Numitor, and feared that Remus and Romulus would later reclaim power. The servant who was supposed to kill them, took pity on them, and left them in a basket on the banks of the Tiber. Romulus and Remus were rescued by a she-wolf, which  housed them in a cave, and fed them. When they grew up, they decided to build their own fortress, Rome. They have failed to agree on who should lead it and, in a brawl, Romulus killed Remus. However, both are considered the founders of Rome.
The symbol of the she-wolf which breastfed them has been used over time not only as a mark of the fortress foundation, but also as a sign of a Roman legion, the emblem of the Olympic Games in 1960 and the emblem of the club AS Roma.
Initially, the municipality of Rome has given to Bucharest City Hall, in 1906, this copy as a symbol of the Dacian-Roman origin of the Romanian people. This year celebrated 1800 years from the conquest of Dacia by the Romans and 25 years from the coronation of Carol I as King of Romania. The Romanian people has received two other statues, located in Cluj and Timişoara.
Thereafter, copies of this statue were offered to other cities in the country, including Constanţa, Alba Iulia, Blaj, Brad, Braşov, Cristeştii, Ciceului, Dej, Galaţi Iernut, Leşu, Luduş, Maieru, Năsăud, Săcele, Satu Mare, Sighişoara, Târgu Mureş, Târnăveni, Topliţa, Turda, Zalãu.
In Constanţa, the statue manufactured in the country is located between  the City Hall park and Ovidiu Square.
Last but not least, other copies were offered to several countries with which Rome wanted to have cordial relations: France, USA, Argentina, Spain and even Japan. Thus, the statue, the symbol of Rome, bears around the world, the message of friendship of the Italian people. The original apparently dates from the fifth century BC and was casted in bronze by the Etruscans, on the valley of  Tiber river. Its age has been established by researchers who have studied the procedure of bronze-casting.

