Located on Traian street, in the park of Constanţa City Hall Park, Victory’s monument is designed in the style specific to the socialist realism and glorifies the anti-fascist battle of the Romanian people. It was unveiled during the year 1968,  its sculptor being Boris Caragea.
Born during January 1906 in Balchik, Boris Caragea passed away during August 1982, in Bucharest. The Romanian sculptor was a correspondent member of the Romanian Academy in 1955. During his youth, he was boatman in Balchik. After World War I, between 1924- 1925 he took drawing lessons with Hrandt Avakian. A year later, he joined the School of Fine Arts from Bucharest, where he was taught by Frederic Storck and Oscar Han. He perfected his studies with Dimitrie Paciurea, working for two years in the master’s workshop. At one point, due to lack of funds, Boris Caragea wanted to leave school. Oscar Han helped him to pass his exams from two years during a single one, and thus Caragea managed to finish his studies.
Boris Caragea and his work
He has been known since 1933, immediately after graduating from the Academy, when he exhibited his first works of small sculpture at the official Saloon, making himself noticed by the construction of volumes and the fineness of modeling. During 1934 he opened his first exhibition of folkloric works, where he also exhibited some of dobrudjan inspiration: "Woman with yoke", "Dobrudjan dance" or "Fishers". During 1937, he received the prize for sculpture in behalf of the Ministry of Arts. Works from the artist’s first stage of creation focused on religious scenes or portraits masterfully drawn.
The second stage has made Caragea an important representative of the socialist realism, becoming the official sculptor of the communist ideology in which he sincerely believed, being influenced by the zeitgeist. During this stage, Boris Caragea was dedicated to outdoor space, propitious to architectural ensembles. In 1951, Boris Caragea was elected president of Visual Artists Union, that he led until 1957, and in 1962 he was appointed chairman of Fine Arts Council within the State Committee for Culture and Art. After reaching the position  of Chairman of VAU, Boris Caragea, who also was the artist of the Royal House, had destroyed all his works designed before 1944, thus denying his past. He was elected correspondent member of the Romanian People's Republic Academy, he received the title of "Honoured Master of Arts" and of "People's Artist". He was awarded several times, the "State Award". He received many official commissions, achieving important works of art, among them being included: "Pain", "Disc thrower" - made in 1958 and placed on the cliff from  Constanţa, " Fruit (Maternity) "- bronze statue, placed in 1964 on the cliff from Eforie Nord, in Boat Station area.

