Tomis Archdiocese Palace situated in Constanţa city was built between the years 1928-1932. Building plans  belong to the architect Ion D. Enescu.
Ion D. Enescu (also known as I.D. Enescu, born on 17 February 1884, Curtea de Argeş – deceased on 1973, Bucharest) was a Romanian arhitect, designer of several public buildings from Romania and Deputy State Secretary within the Ministry of Public Works during many interwar governments,  leader of the College of Romanian architects(1). 
His works include the building of Dramatic Theatre from Galaţi and the Archbishop’s Palace from Constanţa.
The cornerstone of the building was laid during 1925 in the presence of some important local personalities of that time, such as: Patriarch Miron Cristea, Minister of Religious Affairs (Al. Lepădatu), prefect of Constanţa (Nicolae Negulescu) and Mayor of Constanţa (Virgil Andronescu).
Tomis Archdiocese palace  has impressive sizes and was built in new-Byzantine style. The palace building is structured in depth, so  that it is built parallel to the church and to Arhiepiscopiei street.
The impressive construction of Tomis Archdiocese Palace is built on four levels, it has two facades and is supported by large pillars. Windows construction has several forms, some being semicircular, rectangular or other shaped in broken arch.
At the top floor of the building, the windows are grouped by three, while the groundfloor windows frames are made in Romanian style, which confers a special appearance  to the entire construction.
The headquarters  of Tomis Archdiocese is located in one of the most important constructions of Constanţa city, which impresses by sizes and architecture: Tomis Archdiocese Palace.
Tomis Archdiocese is a diocese within the Metropolitan of Muntenia and Dobrudja, of the Romanian Orthodox Church, administers Constanţa County, its registered seat being situated in Constanţa Municipality and is  led by  the Archbishop Theodosie Petrescu.
With a bi-millennium history, dotted with many ups and downs, Archdiocese of Tomis is today the oldest Christian organization from Romania, being itself founded by the Apostles of Christ, Andrew and Philip. Come to preach the gospel of Christ, they ordained certain bishops in the main fortresses from Scythia Minor. No one knows exactly how many bishops were ordained in that region by the Saint Apostles, but at a certain moment in history, the line management of the province has unified, the historian Sozomen ( VIth century) recalling that Scythia Minor has fully entered under the protection of a single bishop who resided in the metropolis of Tomis province.
During IV-VIIth centuries  the region between the Danube and the Sea was organized as Metropolitan, and once with the Ottoman rule, the church administration from Tomis has been suppressed. After the return of Dobrudja to the motherland, the religious activity restarted under the episcopal rule from Galaţi and after the reorganization of the Romanian Orthodox Church, after World War I, the Diocese of Constanţa has been reestablished. This is again dissoluted by the communist authorities, after 1990 Tomis Archdiocese taking back the statute of independent eparchy. 

