The building is part of the complex of administrative buildings designed by the architect Alexandru Sãvulescu in Secession style.
The current building of Constanţa County Court was built between 1904-1906, with  destination of summer residence for the royal family, as attested by the documents of that time.
Known over time as “Royal Palace", the building hosted sumptuous banquets, one of which being held on 3rd May 1911. On that day, the ship “Emperor Trajan” announced by siren signals the arrival of the royal train to Constanţa. After the king reviewed the troops, princesses Mary and Elizabeth were greeted by a group of ladies from Constanţa elite.
At the Palace, were thousands of peasants in national costumes, who sang the Royal Anthem. During the evening, the whole town was lit enchantingly. At the Royal Palace was held a sumptuous banquet, attended by ministers and local officials.
During the year 1922, the building enters the administration of the Ministry of Justice and is inaugurated as the new headquarters of Constanţa Court of Appeal on 16 September 1923. The advanced level of deterioration  has caused  the commencement of restoration and important repairs during October 2001, works taking place on a period of two years.
Thus, it was achieved, with the full support of the Ministry of Justice, the enhancement of this objective, of an incomparable historical significance, recommissioned  exactly 125 years after the return of Dobrudja within the Romanian state.
Alexandru Sãvulescu (b. 1847 Mehedinţi, Mehedinti County - d. 1902) was a Romanian architect, some of the first important representatives of the Romanian school of modern architecture.
He studied in Bucharest and in Paris, from where he returned to the country in 1874. He was for a period the architect of the Ministry of Public Education and Religious Affairs. In this capacity he designed the buildings of several middle schools and high schools.
Between 1895-1902 he was president of the Romanian Architects Society, founded in 1891.

