The statuary group of children is one of the historical monuments of the county of Constanța. This has been executed by Doru Popovici and located in the year 1961.
Eforie Nord is the second resort as capacity. In the south – west side it is situated Lake Techirghiol, known for the curative properties of the mud, therefore the recreational tourism is combined with the hydropath tourism.
The resort has a broad opening towards the seaside and a sea front of over 30 meters heights. The beach of over 3 km length also has portions which reach 100 m in width. The hotels, the villas, the recreational houses can accommodate up to 19000 tourists. The treatment base functions throughout the entire year, the accommodation spaces being warmed during the cold season. In the treatment bases from Eforie Nord there are treated rheumatic inflammatory and degenerative diseases, diseases of the peripheral nervous system, circulation disorders, dermatological diseases, obesity, respiration affections, sterility, ricket, neurasthenia.   
A diversified infrastructure, the recreation bases (sports fields, pools with accessories for water activities, etc.) and the charm of the local ambiance guarantee spending an agreeable vacation on the shore of the Black Sea.
On the 20th of September 1899, by putting the foundation of the Movila Hotel, on the shore of the sea and of the Movilă Baths, on the border of the Lake Techirghiol, there was born the Balneary resort Movilă – Techirghiol, the first tourist resort from Dobrogea.
At half a km towards the south of the locality Eforie, there are fountains of drinking water which allowed good conditions for life, therefore there were found here three broad hearths of ancient establishments: Tuzla Mică, Tuzla Mare and Cainaci. On these places, there were discovered traces of material Thracian – Dacian and Dacian – Roman life, which are prolonged until present, with a Christian living. Over the Getae – Roman establishments, the Romanian establishments, later on, there came and there were established the Turk – Tatars and other populations in migration.
After the war from 1877 – 1878, the Ottoman domination was removed from these places; the territory between the Danube and the Black Sea entering into the component of Romania.
The Romanian state donated the field from the sea – coast, after 1878, to the grand Romanian patriot Mihail Kogălniceanu, as a reward for his virtues proven during the revolution of 1848 and during the war of 1877 – 1878, following which we were recognized the ancestral right concerning Dobrogea.
In the course of time, Mihail Kogălniceanu, recoups from this great extension of land a big part and gives it back to the state, who put in possession of land and colonized these lands with Romanians from Oltenia, and the rest will remain to his descendants from after the year 1894, the year of the death of the great patriot. The descendant of Mihail Kogălniceanu sold the inherited land to Ioan Movilă, aristocrat from Moldavia, descendant of the Moldavian historical families from the XVIth century. He took over the decision of founding on the inherited property, a balneary resort between the sea beach and the lake, in 1899. 

