The Monument of the heroes from Târgușor was built up in the memory of the ones who fought and who lost their lives in the battles which took place in the period 1916 – 1918.
The battle from Turtucaia
The Battle from Turtucaia took place between the 1st and the 6th of September 1916. On the 2nd of December, the Bulgarian – German forces who were under the command of the general Macckensen started attacking the positions of the Romanian Army from the fortified area from Turtucaia. The head of the bridge was defended by the troops of the 17th Division Infantry under the command of the general Constantin Teodorescu and formed predominant by reservists. Because of the faulty method of exercising the command act by the military command superior to the army, after only five days of battles, the Bulgarian – German troops occupy Turtucaia.
The loses suffered by the Romanian army were very big: 160 officers and approximately 6.000 troops and inferior ranks, deceased and injured, plus 480 officers and approximately 28.000 other militaries taken prisoners. From the head of the bridge from Turtucaia they managed to save approximately 2.000 militaries that were evicted over the Danube by the Flotilla ships from the Danube and other approximately 3.5000 who retreated in the rout towards Silistra.
The Battle from Topraisar
On the 6th/19th of October 1916 the marshal August von Mackensen initiates the offensive on the entire front – Rasova, Balta Baciului, Pietreni (Cocargea), Cobadin, Topraisar, Tuzla (Tatlageac) – with a length of 70 kilometers.
The principal hit will be given in the Topraisar sector, by the Division 217 Infantry and the Bode Brigade. On the direction of the principal hit there was concentrated the entire German heavy artillery and two regiments of Bulgarian heavy artillery.
The Romanian position has been arranged even from the periods of peace on the open field between Topraisar and Amzacea, being executed according to the rules of the war. The first line was constituted by the entrenchments for the shooters and individual shelters for the observers. At its back there were the lines of networks of barbed wire, arranged on four lines. At about 150 m behind it there was the principal line of resistance formed of sinuous lines of entrenchments, dig deeply for the standing shooters, connected between them with long subterranean corridors. In the center of the position there were militaries from the 17th Brigade Infantry, commanded by the colonel Stan Poetaș.
On the day of the 6th/19th and 7th/20th of October 1926 the Germans couldn’t conquer the locality Topraisar, being compelled to burry in entrenchments, their most advanced positions being at approximately 300 m from our lines.
The Battle from Mărăști
In May 1917, the Romanian army attacked together with the Russian allays in order to support the Offensive Kerenski. After they managed to break the Austrian – Hungarian front at Mărăști, the advance of the Russian – Romanian troops had to be stopped because of the disaster failure of the Offensive Kerenski. The forces of Makensen counterattacked, but they were defeated at Mărășești. 
Meanwhile, the German technicians managed to re-put into function the markers from the petrol fields from around Ploiești, and by the end of the war they had extracted over one million tones of mineral oil. Also, the Germans requisitioned two million tones of cereals from the Romanian peasants.
The Battle from Mărășești
The Romanian army lost 610 officers and 26.800 soldiers and the German army 60 – 65000 people.

