The congregation church is situated in the center of the Sultana village, at approximately 200 m from the Lake Mostiștea. The existence of the church in the village Odaia Vlădichii, which today is part of the village Sultana, is mentioned in the XVIIIth century, being situated in the proximity of the aristocrat house. In the year 1810, the village Odaia Vlădichii had 25 housed and 135 inhabitants. The old wooden church, with the titular saint the Assumption of Mary, has been built by the villagers on the property of the Cotroceni Church. At the church there served a priest and a cantor. 
The church was rebuilt from wall between the years 1834 – 1835. Because of the fact that the Place of Worship was ruined, in the years 1931 – 1938 it is rebuilt and repainted, as it is mentioned in the INSCRIPTION: “With the help of the Father of the Son and of the Holly Spirit and of Mother of God, our blessed lady forever Virgin Mary, mother of God it was built up from the foundation this holly place of worship with the titular saint of the Assumption of Mary in the time of I.P.S.S.D.D. dr. Miron Critea, the first Patriarch of all the Romanians, of the parish priest Hristu Gaju, brought by faith and the historican events from here, the commune Gopeș, the county Bitolia Macedonia in the year from our Jesus Christ 1931 – 1936. It was painted in the years 1937 – 1938 and it was consecrated on Sunday, the 5th of March, the year 1939 by the P.S. Bishop Veniamin Pocitan, vicar of the Holly Congregation surrounded by the great priest synod. The architect was Petrescu Gopeș, and the painter was Mihail Mitrescu.” Therefore, the current place of worship was built up in the years 1931 – 1936 during the pastorate of the priest Hristu Gaju, from his own funds and it was consecrated in the year 1939 by his Eminence the Bishop Veniamin Pocitan.
In the years 1989 – 1990 there were executed exterior works, being reduce the painting and splashed with stone dust. In the same period there was washed and reconditioned the painting after the old iconographic plan by the painter Preutescu Ovidiu from Bucharest.
The holly place of worship is executed in the shape of a cross with the length of 21 m, the width near the apses is of 11 m and the height of 18 m. The church is built from bricks and covered with zincate plates. It has three octagonal domes, two in the front on the narthex and a higher one on the nave, on which there are assembled three steel crosses. On both the sides of the narthex there are semicircular apses on the interior and semi-octagonal in the exterior, covered by two spherical semi-calottes, the same shape having the altar. The narthex has a rectangular shape, being covered by a semi-cylindrical calotte.
The painting of the church was executed in the year 1937 by the painter Mihail Mitescu. The altar screen is sculpted in oak wood and embellished with icons painted by the same mentioned author. 


