The Vrăbiescu House is an historical architectural monument from the middle of the XIXth century, situated near the center of the municipality of Craiova. The house belonged to the Vrăbiescu family, the most representative owner of her being Iulian Vrăbiescu, jurist and political man, prefect of Dolj, deputy and vice-president of the Senate in 1931.
Iulian Vrăbiescu (the 20th of February 1862, Craiova – 1940, Craiova) was a jurist and politician from Craiova, son of Constantin Vrăbiescu, deputy of Craiova in the Ad-Hoc Divan from Bucharest. Among the functions which he occupied, he looked after the roads from the county, he contributed to the building up of schools and hospitals and he favored the founding of some economical societies. Being he himself a great land owner, this attracted to him a great popularity among the peasants.
Iulian Vrăbiescu was a deputy in the Chamber (1907), senator and vice-president of the Senate (1931). For his political activity, Vrăbiescu was decorated with the Star of Romania and the Crown of Romania. 
The Vrăbiescu house was, most likely, built by the father of Iulian Vrăbiescu, Constantin Vrăbiescu, around the years 1850. At that date, on the current place of the house there were built up three common building, built one next to the other. The house of C. Vrăbiescu hosted a special medical endowment, in order to care for and for treating the soldiers wounded on the front. Besides the existent hospitals and the temporary military hospitals founded at that time (Independence, Mother of God Dudu, Central), there was arranged a series of medical endowments in buildings or in personal property houses (Golfineanu, Brăiloiu, Vlădica, Dumba, Olteanu, Pața, Haralamb, Nae Chiciu, Dinu Mihail, Teodoru Station etc).
Around the year 1910, all the three houses were bought by Vrăbiescu, who employs the young architect Duiliu Marcu to unify and to redo the façade of the respective real properties in a unitary project. Duiliu Marcu, architect, works in Craiova between the years 1913 – 1915 at the House Vrăbiescu – Lescioreanu and between 1914 – 1914 at the House Tudor Mărăscu.
Currently, the Vrăbiescu House is held by a commercial society from Craiova, which, in 2009 – 2010 executed unauthorized works of extending the building for the purpose of transforming it into a hotel. The works, which affected the western façade, the foundation and the house’s basement, were suspended. 
The Vrăbiescu House has a height regime with three levels (basement, ground floor and floor). On the northern side it is neighbored with the Calețeanu House, the eastern façade is on Calea Unirii (at the street), and the western one borders on the Gheorghe Doja street. The principal entrance in the construction is made through a covered alleyway, closed with plate gates, which borders on the interior courtyard. Above the entrance there is situated a closed balcony with windows fixed in the metallic structure. From the ornamental point of view, the eastern façade of the building is distinguished by a rich ornamentation and delicate details, executed artistically, as well as the ones above the windows from the floor and the ones from the cornice. The window cases are made of wood, while the ornament from above the entrance door, the structure of the balconies and of the fences in a balcony style from the windows from the floor are made of metal. The visible facades (eastern and southern) are extremely deteriorated (fallen coating, cut through by reinforced bars, broken windows). 

