The building is built at the end of the XIXth century. As with a great number of houses from the center of Craiova, the Zwillinger House also belongs to the civic patrimony, being built by the influent Jewish community from Craiova.
According to the data, the Zwillinger House was built on three levels (basement, ground floor and floor, destined for living), at which it is added an arch, the access to these and to the interior yard being made by an alleyway. The façade of the Zwillinger House is provided with 7 windows (3 at the ground floor and 4 at the floor) and a door with an exit on a little balcony (at the floor). The building’s bridge is spacious, well enlightened and ventilated by 3 decorative air shafts. The style is characteristic to the period, namely eclectic, with a rich ornamentation on the façade facing the boulevard and delicate details, executed artistically. 
Unfortunately, the Zwillinger House has suffered, throughout the times, more inadequate interventions, which haven’t respected the norms into force, regarding the buildings declared historical monuments. In 2011, a team of specialists discovered the fact that the owners executed rehabilitation works without requesting the necessary notices and that they have replaced the old wooden carpentry with new windows made of PVC carpentry with double pane glass. 
The Zwillinger house belonged to the Jewish family with the same name, being built, most likely, by Samuel and Elena Zwillinger at the end of the XIXth century. 
More information regarding the members of the Zwillinger family date back to 1942, when the census of the Jews from Romania was made. In the census there appear information about a certain Wilhelm Zwillinger, son of Samuel and Elena, born at Craiova on the 7th of July 1888. Other data refer to his education (he graduated 12 grades and he passed the Baccalaureat exam), occupations (former cereal merchant) and the address (23 Gh. Chițu street). Most likely, Wilhelm Zwillinger held more properties, among which the house from the street Gh. Ghițu and the one from Calea Unirii, back then on no. 52, as it appears from the correspondence with his son, Erich (Puiu). It is possible that Wilhelm Zwillinger to be the same person with Dr. Zwillinger, the one who activated as a secretary at the Medical – Pharmaceutical Circle in the year 1909, author of some scientific works in the field, such as “Regarding the measure of the blood pressure” and the “Treatment with zilbersalvarsan”.
Following the census of the Jews from Romania there were executed three lists, named the Tables of Men, which comprised the names of all the Jewish men from Romania, divided on three age categories (15 – 26 years, 21 – 50 years, over 50 years). Because of the fact that the Jews had been excluded from the army, the ones with the ages comprised between 21 and 50 years of age were obligated to carry out different equivalent military obligations (more precisely, there were used in work brigades and fortifications (diggers), enrolled in the non-combatant unities (without arms) or in the CFR unities). Wilhelm Zwillinger, with the age of 54 at that moment, has been absolved of the work obligation, his son, on the other hand, was enrolled in the work brigade for the Jews L20 from Deva.
Part of the correspondence sent by Wilhelm Zwillinger and his wife to their son is part of the collection of documents and artifacts from the period of the Second World War of the lawyer Edward Victor, donated in 2011 to the Museum of Holocaust from Los Angeles. Below we represent an envelope and two postal cards sent by the Zwillinger husbands to Erich (Puiu) Zwillinger in 1942. 

