The first place of worship built on the place of the current church Mântuleasa was a small wooden church, built up at the beginning or at the half of the XVIIIth century by the titled lady Despina, the wife of the treasurer Strâmbeanu.
By the end of the century, on the place of the little church, there was built up from the foundation a stone church, at the initiative of the treasurer Barbu Știrbei, supported by the guild of tailoring and of the other shopkeepers from Craiova. Because of the significant contribution of the guild of tailoring from Craiova at the construction of the church, it took over the titular saint of Saint Pantelimon, the patron of the guild of tailoring. Here was also kept the flag of the guild, which was taken at the end of the XIXth century and laid-down for keeping at the Corporation of Artisan Princess Ileana from the locality, from where it disappeared subsequent, during the German occupation of Oltenia from 1916 – 1918.
In the first years of the XIXth century, the church goes through a robbery and a fire (1801) and an earthquake (1802), but it is quickly repaired. In January 1838, a new earthquake leaves cracks and traces on the construction. In 1896, when the church is restored entirely, from the anterior one there aren’t kept only the walls of the nave and of the altar. 
Together with the change of the exterior aspect, the church is renewed with also a new name, the ones of Madonna, which represents, in the Latinized form of 1860, the old Romanian name of the church – Mother of God. This change of the church’s name in Mântuleasa is contiguous to the name of another important church from Craiova, Madonna Dudu. Despite all of this, the traditional name of the church, namely the one of Mântuleasa, hasn’t been affected. It is met in the oldest document of Craiova, being used even starting with 1795 in connection with the place of worship, but also with the neighborhood (the quarter) from its surroundings. It is believed the fact that the name of”Mântuleasa” comes from the “Savior”, religious name of the mother of God. Another hypothesis in connection with the name of this church is that it comes from its founder, Despina, the wife of the treasurer Strâmbeanu, but there aren’t found consistent the proof regarding the fact that the treasurer would have had this name, also. 
From the architectural point of view, the church of 1896 was built in a Gothic Byzantine style, as an imitation of the church Domnișa Balașa from Bucharest. From the old church all was lost, starting with the adornments to the old painting, excepting for an Evangelic chained in silver printed at the Typography of the Congregation of Râmnic in 1794, during the Episcopacy of Nectarie.
Two important earthquakes from the XXth century (the ones from the 10th of November 1940, and the ones from the 4th of March 1977) bring important damages, which determine new works of repairing and restoration from 1979. The painting of the church was restored by the plastic artist Dan Neamțu, the one who was also responsible for the restoration of the churches Saints Apostles, Saint Gheorghe – New and Saint Dumitru from Craiova.
Between the architectural details which transform the church Mântuleasa in a special construction there is numbered the average width of the walls of 1 meter, the mosaic flooring, the wooden altar screen or the strained-glass windows. 

