Property of the Eskenazy family, the Eskenazay house was built at the end of the XIXth century in the center of the city of Craiova, and it is situated on Calea Unrii, at number 42.
The Eskenzay House is part of a series of houses in a closed regime of construction (lined houses), similar or identical constructions constructed at the right – left of a common wall, according to a symmetrical plan. The thing which is specific for this construction is the fact that it was built up by and for the two owners, as it is shown by the tags which indicate the fact that it shelters two buildings, historical monuments: to the right, at number 42, it is the Eskenazy House, and to the left, at number 44, it is found the Boicescu House.
The building is structured on two floors (ground floor and first floor). At the ground floor there are found two spaces with a commercial activity (pastry – doughnuts in the Eskenazy House and a safety latch atelier and copying keys in the Boicescu House), separated by the principal entrance in the construction, which offers an access through a corridor at the spaces placed symmetrically at the superior floor, as well as at the interior yard.
The Eskenazy House received its name from the family Eskenazy (or Eschenazy / Eskenasy / Eschenazi), one of the families of Jews from Craiova, who gave the town at the end of the XIXth century and the beginning of the XXth century more intellectuals: doctors, lawyers, but also personalities in the banking business. 
Before becoming their property, the house accommodated the Pension Settelin, according to the record of Th. I. Ionescu from the book “Short story of the private education from Craiova”, of 1906.
In the year 1885, the brothers Așer and Lazăr Eschenasy owned a manufacturing store on 40 Unirii Street, on the place of the current Eskenazy House, named “The brother Așer Eschenasy.”
At this date, the two brothers, well-known exchangers and businessmen of different kinds of merchandise and cereals, also had a “business offices of exchange and of sale” in the Suburb the Holly Trinity, 70 Unirii Street and a tannery tool house in the Suburb Saint Dimitrie, 5634 Grădinarilor Street.
Also, during those times, there was founded in Craiova the Eskenazy Bank, where the brothers Așer Eskenasy, bankers and money lenders, practiced interests of 20 – 24% per month.
Subsequent, the bank entered in bankruptcy during the time of the Great Economical Crisis of 1929 – 1933, together with other banks from Romania, owned and administered by Jews, as it was the Berkowitz Bank from Bucharest. 

