Built at between the centuries XIX – XX under the name of Greblescu Hotel, surprised at that time by the luxury and his imposing form. The building of the former hotel, evaluated at 10 million euros, is on the list of historical monuments of the year 1975. Currently, the famous former hotel accommodates the football club FC Universitatea Craiova, the editorial office of the daily paper Special Edition and a confectionary.
The Greblescu Hotel, which later became the “New York” Hotel, had at the ground floor the famous confectionary ”Borănescu”, whose fame, for many years to come will stand together with the famous confectionaries from Bucharest, “Capșa”, “Athenee Palace” and “Nestor”. At the hotel’s basement there was a restaurant named “At the tunnel” which had during the years of the crisis an advertisement in lines “If you don’t want to fell the crisis,/ You should all head for the «Tunnel», / You drink, you eat, until you drop/ You know, there also sings a folk music band, /And during the day, when you are wasted,/ You must have a belly broth / And then to drink again / A Nectar or a Cotnar / Because the grape vine is of Drăgășani / And you only drink it at … Eremia”.
One of the courses of Craiova from those times was gravitating, without any doubt, around the luxurious Geblescu Hotel, a two-stories building, which was taking pride in the 54 rooms, modernly decorated. The hotel quickly became the center of the fashionable life from those times. Together with other famous hotel, the Greblescu Hotel also was a popular place, adequate for the night adventures. The women who sold pleasures, had the rooms permanently rented at this hotel, and their clients didn’t hesitate in financing them. Near the hotel there also was the confectionary of Cacaliceanu, which had above it the Club for Youth; there was also a beerhouse, the granary of Valentin Cohn, the houses of Gheorghe Ghițu and Iorgu Căletzeanu, and cross the street from it, there was shortly built up a luxurious hotel, the Minerva Hotel.
In the inter-war years, the hotel changed many times the name and the owner.
In 1924, following an auction sale, Nicolae Dragomir, Romanian citizen established in America, bought the building and renovated it, transforming it into a hotel with 65 rooms, beautifully furnished and equipped with the most modern water, light installations, electrical network and sewage. The name of the hotel was also changed into “New York” Hotel. The advertisement of those times said that the prices were convenient and that, among the facilities from which the clients benefited, was also the fact that they could take a bath at any hour from the day and the night. Dragomir didn’t get the chance to enjoy very much his investment, dieing five years later and leaving behind a will, disputed even in these days.
In 1934, the hotel was passed onto the property of a certain Petrică Teodorescu. Starting with 1947 and until 1977, the “New York” Hotel functioned under the name of Bucharest Hotel. After the earthquake of the 4th of March of that year, the hotel was dissolved because of the serious damages it had suffered. The building accommodated, further on, the headquarters of some enterprises, such as of UFET Dolj (The Forrest Unity of Exploitation and Transport).
For almost 30 years, at the ground floor of the former hotel, on the side from Calea Unirii, it functioned a buffet “Express”. On the other side of the building, the one facing Saint Dumitru Street, it is a popular state confectionary, named “Aida”, which entered into bankruptcy around the year 1990 and taken over in private patronage. 

