
The current church was built on the place of an older church, built up in the XVIIIth century by the nobles Otetelișeni. The church with the titular saint of Saint Elijah, founded by the high steward Ilie Otetelișanu, was built in the XVIIIth century, being considered to be the oldest wall church built in the XVIIIth century in Craiova.
The church of the high steward Ilie Otetelișanu had reduced dimensions and only one tower, but it was equipped by the founder with silvery, clothing and books, but also with properties. The place where it was built was one of the most agglomerated places from the city, at the border of the permanent borough of Craiova and the so-called Exterior Borough, which in time will get to carry the name of the Saint Elijah Suburb.
On the day of the 23rd of January 1838, there was a very powerful earthquake, of 7, 5 degrees on the Richter scale, which affected numerous buildings from Craiova, among which there was the Saint Elijah Church, when “the church tower was broke in three places, two piers from the inside crashed, the coating also falling”. Following this earthquake, the high steward Iordache Otetelișanu and the guardian Grigore Otetelișanu perform to the church capital reparations, which entirely change its aspect. Therefore, the church tower will be demolished, the roof will be made in two parts, towards east and towards west there will be made two triangle pediments replacing the roof, the porch will be disassembled, over the door will be assembled a semi-conic marquise as shelter, covered with plates and the exterior of the church will be modified (the belt and the ornaments in a Brâncoveany style will be demolished). The church tower will be also covered with tin plates, but will keep its initial form until 1889. About the church tower from Saint Elijah it is said the fact that it would have been built on 7 stories, being taller than the famous tower of Colța from Bucharest. The church amvon was executed by the carpenter Ioniță and Gheorghe Ocruțchi the blacksmith. The painting of the new place of worship will be assigned in 1840 to Barbu and Petre, house painters from Craiova, but the results don’t gratify the guardians, who assign with this request the painter Constantin Lecca. Between the years 1889 – 1890, the place of worship will be redone in the current form by the family Otetelișanu. The plans of the new church were drafted by the architect Fr. Springer, and the enterprise by the entrepreneur Giuseppe Trolli. The foundation was set on the 7th of July 1889, at less than one month after the demolition, and the construction of the church ended on the 30th of August 1890. The church’s stained glasses were executed by the company Ziegler and Schmidt from Bucharest (which also executed the stained glass of the burial chamber of Iulia Hașdeu from the Cemetery Bellu from Bucharest), whereas the painting (the portraits of the founders and the icons from the altar screen) will be executed in the period 1892 – 1893 by the well-known painter from Bucharest Ioanid, under the direct supervision of his master and his professor, Gheorghe Tăttărescu, being the last church painted by him. The Saint Elijah church was again the church’s cathedral starting with the year 1890 and until the 26th of October 1993, when the construction works of the cathedral Saint Dumitru were finished. At the beginning of the year 2015, the subsidiary from Oltenia of the Order of Architect from Romania, organized a contest of ideas regarding the arrangement of the public space by the opening of the courtyard of Saint Elijah Church. The action was part of a more ample process of activating and revitalizing the old center of the city of Craiova. On this occasion the garden was disassembled, the metallic fence was demolished on the brick pedestal of the church, the marble cross of the tomb situated in the courtyard of the church was disassembled, and this was transformed into a piece of urban furniture. 

