Built in the first part of the XXth century according to the plans of the architect Petre Antonescu, in the Neo-Romanian style promoted by Ion Mincu, the constructions accommodates today two of the most important institutions from the county: the Prefecture and the County Council of Dolj.
The Administrative Palace – or the Palace of the Prefecture, as it is also known -, was built at the beginning of the XXth century, most likely between the years 1912 – 1913 (the year of the beginning of the construction differs from a source to another, from 1907 / 1909 / 1910 / 1912). It is said that the prime-minister Ion I.C. Brătianu, present at Craiova at the liberal meeting of the 24th of June 1909, would have been present at the establishment of the document at the foundation of the building. For the construction of the palace of the former land of the family Hagiade and the arrangement of the market from the front of it, the recites from that period said that an entire neighborhood of hovels would have been demolished.
The constructor appointed by Antonescu for the construction of the Administrative Palace was Giovanni Batista Peressutti, the one who further contributed at the building up in Craiova of numerous monumental buildings (amonh them being the Bank of Commerce – today the City Hall of Craiova, the White House, The Carianopol House – today the Commandment of the Gendarmerie Dolj, the Faculty of Agronomy, the Policlinic no. 2 of the Hospital Philanthropy, the reconstruction of the College Carol I after the fire of 1930, the Auditorium of the Lyrical Theater, the House and the Mill Barbu Drugă, the House Constantin Neamțu, etc.). Peresutii established in Craiova in 1908, a year before Petre Antonescu projected the Administrative Palace; he was an old friend of the architect, whom he met in Paduaa (Italy).
The palace is a building of monumental dimensions, built out of stone, brick and steel concrete, in a Neo-Romanian style, shaped under the form of the letter E on a symmetrical plan facing the vertical of the central tower. The construction presents two principal facades which correspond to the entering in the building, to west (towards Michael the Brave Market) and to east (towards English Park), the one from the west being granted a bigger importance. 
From the esthetic point of view, the decoration of the facades is remarked by the numerous original elements, but which reinterpret elements specific to the old Romanian architecture: the roof with covering made of glazed plates of a green color with decorative elements made of zinc and clerestories, the loggias, the balconies and the bow windows from the façade of the floor on the lateral bodies of the facades, the decors in the console, the tri-lobbed arches from the windows, the frameworks of the windows, the columns, the borders and the stone pedestal, the decorative belts or the chamfers for collecting the rain water, modeled with the motive of the twisted ropes. 
The attraction of the architect Petre Antonescu towards the traditional architecture is visible also in the conceiving and in treating the interior of the Administrative Palace, in the center of which it is situated the big honor staircase, which offers access towards the reception, council rooms and the offices of the institutions accommodated in the building. It is also noticed the air shaft from the ceiling, situated exactly above the honor stairs, through which it is naturally lighted the lobby of the construction. 

