The sumptuous palace of Jean Mihail is considered to be one of the most beautiful monuments of civil architecture from the city. Built between 1898 and 1907 by the architect Paul Gottereau at the command of Constantin (Dinu) MIhail), the palace is a wonderful example of eclectic European architecture and of French academicism.
The palace was built in order to serve as private residence of Constantin (Dinu) Mihail, agrarian and political man, the son of the great Macedonian Romanian landholder and landlord Nicolachi Mihail, who came in Oltenia from Macedonia at the beginning of the XIXth century. With executing the plans of the residence was charged with the architect of the Royal Court, the French man Paul (Alfred Jules Paul) Gottereau.
From the architectural point of view, the Palace Jean Mihail belongs to the French academicism, incorporating the elements which belong to the late Baroque. The exterior architecture is remarked by the framings of the balconies, the ornaments of the facades, the fitting works of the balconies, the four columns attached to the 1st floor (leaned, attached to the wall without making a common body with it), the central unhooked body (drawn, detached), the central loggia from the southern façade of the palace and the table slates of the roof. In the interior, the palace was equipped with an honor staircase made of marble of Carrara and columns in an Ionic style, chandeliers made of Murano crystal, Venetian mirrors, furnaces of terracotta, golden structure, painted ceilings and cartouches, walls covered with Lyon silk, luminaries with stained glass, ceilings made of sculpted wood, inlaying and hardwood flooring of superior quality, style furniture, Japanese vessels, sculptures and paintings (including an original painting executed by Grigorescu). As equipments, the residence of Dinu Mihail has been provided with electrical installations and central heating.
Built on two floors, the palace has 36 rooms, among which we remind the hallways, the vestibules and the waiting rooms, the offices, the library, the rooms for the owners and for the personnel, living rooms and saloons, bathrooms, kitchens, pantries and outhouses (stable, garage, barn).
After the end of the war, the Palace Jean Mihail accommodated the headquarters of some politics institutions, such as the Oltenia Regional of the communists or ARLUS (the Romanian Association for raising the Connections with the Soviet Union). In the fall of 1948, in the palace there were installed for short time (1 year) the vice-chancellorship, the dean’s office and the administrative direction from the Agronomical Institute, the oldest institution of higher education from Craiova, the predecessor of the University from Craiova.
Starting with August 1954, the palace became the host of the Art Museum from Craiova. The foundation of the museum was constituted from the collections of the Picture Gallery “Alexandru and Aristia Aman”, which comprises works from the XVIIth century from the Dutch, Flemish, Italian and French schools, the Romanian painting (Theodor Aman), graphic works and Romanian and foreign decorative art, at which there was added the collection of European painting of Jean Mihail. Throughout the years, the museum’s patrimony was enriched by the acquisitions of the municipality and the donations of the collections owned by the personalities from those times (Nicolae Romanescu, Cornetti, Glogoveanu), reaching that nowadays to have considered tens of thousands of art pieces of worldwide value. Among the works from the national art gallery, we mention the priceless works and objects of Constantin Brâncuși, the paintings by Constantin Lecca, Theodor Aman, Nicolae Grigorescu, Ștefan Luchian, Nicolae Tonitza, Camil Ressu, Theodor Pallady or Ion Țuculescu, sculptures of Karl Storck or Dimitrie Paciurea. 

