The bust of the painter Theodor Aman, work of the sculptor Ion Jalea, was executed in bronze in the year 1962. The bust, which portrays Theodor Aman holding in his right hand the brush and in his right hand the palette of colors, it is situated in the front yard of the Art Museum from Craiova, accommodated in the Palace Jean Mihail. On the pedestal of the bust is carved the inscription: “Theodor Aman 1831 – 1891”, while on the right side of it, it is found the sculptor’s signature.
The bust of Theodor Aman was also cought in the consolidation and restoration project of the Palace Jean Mihail, initiated at the end of the year 2009. On this occasion, the bust was cleaned, and the foundation of the pedestal and the scale board of travertine were redone.
Theodor Aman (1831 – 1891) is considered to be one of the great classics of the Romanian painting, but also drawer, teacher and exceptional academician. Theodor Aman is also the founder of the first Romanian schools of fine arts from Bucharest and Iași.
Born at Câmpulung Muscel, Aman attended the first classes at the Central School from Craiova (today the National College “Carol I”), under the guidance of the painter and professor Constantin Lecca. After the studies from Bucharest and Paris, he dedicates himself to painting and connects his name to the history of Romanian art by the contribution and founding the school of arts. 
At his death, Alexandru Aman, the older brother of Theodor, leaves by will to the City Hall of Craiova “my collection of original paintings of my family, art objects and all the furniture”. Therefore, around one hundred and twenty paintings and graphic works (design in pen, sketches, aquaforte, aquarelle) by Theodor Aman, are included in the patrimony of the first art museum from Craiova, “The picture gallery Alexandru and Aristia Aman”, and today they are part of the collections from the Art Museum from Craiova.
Ion Jalea (1887 – 1983) was one of the most famous Romanian sculptors, titular member of the Romanian Academy and president of the Union of Plastic Artists from Romania. After the studies attended at the Academy of Fine Arts from Bucharest and at the Julian Academy from Paris, he starts an international successful artistic career, crowned by the Big Awards at the International Expositions from Paris and from Barcelona. The dimension of the work and of the career of Ion Jalea is even more impressive because of the fact that he lost his left arm in the First World War, during the Battle from Mărășești from 1917, therefore in the most part of his life sculpted with only one hand.
In Craiova, there are found three works of the sculptor Ion Jalea. Besides the bust of Theodor Aman, there is also the bust of the poet Traian Demetrescu (8 Buzești Brothers street) and the work the “Impetus”, is situated at the secondary entrance in the Park “Nicolae Romanescu”, it is pictured a young man freeing two horses which are in a departure point. 

