The House Constantin Vălimărescu dates back to the end of the XIXth century and it was built after the plans of the French architect Albert Galleron, the one who also projected in Romania the Romanian Athenaeum and the Palace of the National Bank of Romania from Bucharest., the Palace Dimitrie Ghika from Comănești and numerous houses of nobles from Bucharest and from the province. The building has two floors (ground floor and first floor), a monumental entrance and a spacious court yard with more access paths (pedestrian and for the vehicles). From the principal gate, at the pedestrian path (momentarily closed) you can arrive at the principal entrance in the building by passing the courtyard on a paved alley. 
The first land owner of the building, after whom the house received its name, was the magistrate Constantin Vălimărescu (the 18th of January 1848, the commune Moțăței, county of Dolj – the 9th of December 1911, Craiova). After he finished his studies abroad, Vălimărescu obtained his PHD in Law at Toulouse and came back from the country, where he activated as a procurator (1874), meeting member at the Court (1877), procurator, president and prime-president at the Court of Appeal from Craiova (starting with 1883 until 1911). Vălimărescu was married with Ana Greceanu, daughter of the colonel Ion Greceanu with Policsenia Bengescu and sister with Maria Stoilow (mother of the future great Romanian mathematician Simion Stoilov, in the immobile of over Calea Unirii, known today under the name of the House Stoilov – Bolintineanu). Constantin Vălimărescu was burried in the Cemetery Sineasca. 
In the period of the communist regime, in this house there functioned ASCAR (the Assistance of the Cardiac), then the building was allocated to the Art Museum, which arranged here the Section Collections. After the Revolution of 1989, the house was re-ceded to the descendants of the former owner. They sold it to the company Italian Knitwear, which rented it to the bank Unicredit. According to Otilia Gheorghe, in the book “Centenary of the Museum of Oltenia 1915 – 2015”, in the year 1991 in the House Vălimărescu there would have functioned the Zonal laboratory of restoration and conservation and the County Office of the National Cultural Patrimony Dolj, structures of the former Museum Complex dissolved in the same year, passed in the administration of the Art Museum Craiova.
In the period 2004 – 2005, the building benefited from the conservation, renovation and restoration works according to the initial plans and of some photographs of the ornamentations. Following this process, the ornaments were redone or consolidated, the interior walls were decorated with silk panels, the wooden framings of the doors were cleaned and integrated to the chromatic of ensemble of the interiors, and the stained glass were restored. About the redone of the stained glasses there attended the know plastic artist Silviu Bârsanu, the one who also attended the restoration of the stained glasses from the House Nicolae Romanescu (The House of the University Men) and from the University from Craiova. After the renovation, the building was sold to a company controlled in the majority by Max Mara International, a society with the head office in Luxemburg. The other stock holder of the property company is the Italian company Imax Unipersonale.
In the Vălimărescu House, there functions today the head office of the bank Unicredit Țiriac Bank. 

