The construction of the church dates back around the years 1792 – 1800, according to the information extracted from the inscription in Slavic, carved in stone in its porch. Outside the frame of the inscription, there are written the words: “having the help of the priest Vladu and of the noble Matei Giurca”, and lower the name “Tănăsie”,
Although according to the historical information from the inscription there could have been established as the building date the year 7301 from the making of the world, more precise, the autumn of the year 1792, a fragment of wall from the southern part of the church marks an older foundation. Therefore, it is considered the fact that the church is over 220 years old. Coming back to the inscription kept in the church, numerous sources indicate in this the fact that the founder of the church was a certain Nicolae Ceaușoiu or Ceaușescu, about whom it is known the fact that he had an adoptive son, Nicola(e), brother or relative with Hagi Enuș. Costa Petru, the one who will look after the church and will give it its name from the present.
In the XVIIIth century, the inhabitant of Craiova knew the church with the older titular saint of the monastery of All the Saints, name which was kept until the year 1782. In the documents from the beginning of the XIXth century it is talked about the “Church from the Bourg from Outside all the Boangii, the titular saint of All the Saints, executed by the suburbanite merchants”, built at the end of the previous century. We find out the fact, together with the founding at the periphery of Craiova of the so-called Borough from Outside, the church took its name.
After the death of the Ceaușești, Hagi Enuș helps his brother in the guardianship acts of the church. In this way it is also explained the changing of the name of the church in the oral tradition from the Borough from Outside, further the Old Borough from Oustide (together with moving the Borough), in the Old Borough Hagiu, the Church from Hagiu and, later on, the church Hagi Enuș. Officially, the changing of the name happened on the date of the 29th of July 1859, when, in a request of the Municipality Council from Craiova with no. 1285, the place of worship appears for the first name under the name of the church Hagi Enuș. 
Of Greek or Macedonian – Romanian origin, Hagi Enuș was a wealthy merchant from Craiova, whose name we find among the guardians from the church Madona Dudu (at those times the Mary, mother of Jesus), of the house of the titled lady Smaranda Brăiloiu and of the church All the Saints.
Besides the commerce and guardianship, Hagi Enuș was also involved in the Revolution of 1821, when he loaned Tudor Vladimirescu with 4.953 RON for expenses with the armament. This support wasn’t an uninterested one, Hagi Enuș, he wanting to enter in the favors of the revolutionary hero. Vladimirescu understood the dirty tricks of the agile merchant, wo he accuses in one of the points from the “Requests of the Romanian vulgus” that he would have plundered the country by robberies and he condemns him to the chasing from the country. The decision couldn’t be put into practice because of the tragic end of the leader of the Revolution. Further on, Hagi Enuș, falls into the disgrace of the people and he is obligated, in turn, to assign the guardianship of the house of the titled lady Brăiloiu and the one of the church of All Saints (April 1824). In the posterior documents to this year it is mentioned only “the house of the deceased Hagi Enuș”.

