The building of the University from Craiova, built initially to serve as the Palace of Justice, is an architecture monument of national interest and one of the most representative constructions of the city.
Projected in 1890 by the architect Ion Socolescu, the building of the University is an illustration of the Neo-classic in the architecture.
On the place on which today it is built the building of the University from Craiova (the vice-chancellorship) there is, in the XVIIIth and XIXth centuries, the Gănescu Church, founded by the High Steward Barbu Zătreanu Gănescu. Together with the secularization of the fortunes of the monasteries of 1863, the church loses its properties, and in the courtyard and in the old bishop houses moves its headquarters in the Court from Craiova. Further on, in the year 1884, it has been decided the demolition of the religious constructions and to be built up, on the same emplacement, a Palace of Justice. Until its building, the temporary headquarter of the Court from Craiova was moved to the House of Craiova. The decision of demolition of the buildings which belonged to the Gănescu Church would have  been put into practice in the years 1889 – 1890, when there were also started the works for the new building. 
The building, projected in 1890 by the architect Ion N. Socolescy, characterized by the monumental typical for the French academicism of those times, was built up between 1894 and 1912. Even from the beginning there were visible, at the exterior, as well as in the interior, the elements and the principles of the architecture borrowed from the Classicism, as well as triangle front and the peristyle of the principal entrance with three doors, framed by four composite columns (with Corinthian and Ionic elements). The construction collapsed perfectly on the subsided land, having three levels of height (high basement / basement , ground floor and first floor). The palace was surrounded by a fence with grates made of wrought iron fixed on a concrete foundation, with piers from place to place. Between the building and the yard there was developed, on all its sides, a portion of grass. Further on, together with the alterations brought to be building and to the surrounding area, the place has been disassembled.
The initial form of the building of the Palace of Justice was of quadrangle cut across on the middle by a central body, which corresponded to the principal entrance. This was dominated by the classical fronton, where there could be admired a statuary group represented the “Blind-folded justice”, removed after 1948. Further on to the changes of the destination of the building, under its fronton there was put the word “THE UNIVERSITY”, written with capital letters in relief.
The palace of justice was built in order to serve as the head office of different bodies and instances of justice from Craiova. Between 1941 and 1944, the palace was occupied by the German troops. Together with the leaving of the Germans, the justice institutions (The Court and the Appeal Court) came back in this place until 1951. Starting with 1948, here was also the head office of the first unity of superior education from Craiova (the Agronomic Institute). At the same time, the western side of the palace was oocupied by the local administrative institution (The Popular Council). In the period 1951 – 1958, the eastern wing of the building accommodated the second institute of superior education, the Institute of Cars and of Electric Devices (The Technical Institute). For a short period of time, between 1958 – 1959, the Palace of Justice became again the house of the regional, the district and the city courts, of the prosecution and of the Bar. Starting with 1966, the imposing construction was established and entered into the property of the new founded University from Craiova!

