

The history of this education institution starts almost 70 years before the inauguration of the building, in which it is functioning today. On May 20th 1826 Craiova Central School was founded, the second national elementary school in the Principalities, after Sf. Sava College in Bucharest, actually a humanistic clas of Romanian secondary education. The class was founded near the primary school at Obedeanu Monastary and functioned in the cells in the church courtyard. On December 7th 1831, the school moves with all its classes to the cells of the Madona Dudu Church (Maica Precista din Dud).
In October 1832, magistrate Iordache Otetelișanu, donates 300 ducats to buy a land in center Craiova from Barbu Știrbei towards raising a building for the school. The actual construction begins in 1835, following Spanish architect Xavier Vilacrosse’s plans.
The building has a height regime on four levels (basement, ground floor and two floors) and it contains classrooms, laboratories, administrative offices, library and on the front wing of the building, show room of the former “Elena Teodorini” Lyrical Theatre (currently the Romanian Opera in Craiova). As equipment aside from furniture or educational materials, the college has collectable objects and rare or unique exhibits belonging to different sciences. From rare and old books (“Numismatics treaty” by Budeus from 1512, 400 volumes from “Mémoire et reconnaissance”, The 
Bible from Bucharest with Lamartine’s autograph on the first page, from 1826), to rock and butterfly collections, the high school library is an extremely valuable space. Also, in the biology cabinet of the high school there is also a famous work of art Constantin Brâncuși‘s “Ecorșeul” (“Jupuitul”), created between 1900 and 1902 under dr. Gerota’s guidance, that shows the muscular system and human ligaments in detail.
On the building’s facades you notice the windows’ borders, semi-columns with Corinthian capitals on one or two levels above the main entrance, dormers and light fixtures of the roof launched in front of the two mentioned entries, the profile Cornish etc. Inside you can admire the marble mosaic floors, a main stairwell of stucco rock and artificial marble with columns of sculpted capitals, as well as Tribalsky’s paintings and former students’ frescos. 
Today, on the high school’s facades there are many commemorative plaques that remind us of events tied to the history of this educational and cultural institution:
“In the old Central School building, in these places, Ioan Maiorescu (1811-1864), professor, diplomat and politician, 1848 Revolution participant, active militant for the unification of the principalities, lived for a while.”
“Here his son, Titu Maiorescu (1840-1917), literary critic, aesthetician, university professor, jurist and politician, founder of the “Junimea” literary society and of the “Convorbiri literare” magazine, member of the Romanian Academy, was born.”
 “Here was the Central school where, between June 13 and 15th 1848, was also the revolutionary government residence.” Here the Islaz Proclamation was read and here were the premises of the Revolutionary club from Craiova during the revolution.”

