

Situated in the central area of the city of Craiova, the compound of the Holy Trinity Church is a distinctive architectural complex, made up of the church itself, dedicated to the Holy trinity and its entry tower. Old monarchic chapel, historical and religious monument of great importance, the Holy Trinity church is a church whose spectacular past is far too unknown.
The “Holy Trinity” Church (old “Saint Roadside Crucifix” or Stirbei church) is the foundation of old landowner’s wife Dumitrana Știrbei stolnic wife, called Știrboaica, the daughter of the educated Constantin Strâmbeanu and the widow of the great logothete Constantin Știrbei, former Craiova Turkish colonel in 1741. The church construction began in 1765, a document of September 15th of that same year attesting that the stolnic wife “had built a church near her houses in Craiova”, not far from the then residences of the Bans of Craiova, current Houses of Bănie.
The landowner’s chapel, built from the wall, is mentioned in the “Dacia History” work, as one of the five rock churches in the city “Petre Bojiu’s, that of the Știrboaica, of Saint John of the Hungarian and of the Jian”. It was finished in 1768, standing out through its brancoveanu style, its cross shape, the narrow steeple above the nave and the verandah with colonnades.
The landowner’s wife Dumitrana supervised not only the construction of the church but also the endowment and its decoration. In 1781, she ordered a chandelier with 24 candlesticks and wrote to a merchant friend from Sibiu, asking him to bring her “20 leaflets of good Polish gold, 3 lei and a half each”.
The painter who handled the chapel painting was hired from Sibiu the year before by Barbu, Dumitrana’s son. In 1790, the church was equipped with a 100 pound (pfunzi) bell, with the caption “this bell was made by herself Dumitrana Știrboaica the stolnic wife and was placed in the Saint Roadside Crucifix dedication in Craiova”, being kept even today in the entry tower.
In 1906, the chapel was rebuilt on the old foundation at the expense and under the construction of king Barbu Știrbei’s sons, princes Alexandru and Dimitrie Știrbei, by the plans of French architect and restorer André Lecomte du Noüy. Aside from the church reconstruction, founders Alexandru and Dimitrie Știrbei, also took care of building the entry tower, dating also to 1906, as well as the decoration and arrangement of the church. The inside painting was done, an oak altar screen was placed, sculpted and golden and furniture from France was brought in.
In the meantime, the chapels were torn down to create a large garden around the church and the wall was also torn down to create an open space, to integrate the church in the new architectural view of the Mihai Viteazu square.



