

Oteteleșanu School (by other writings Otetelișanu) is a patrimony building in the center of Craiova, right near the “Carol I” High school. The building housed the Lazaro-Otetelișanu School for Girls, the second school in Craiova and the first school for girls in Wallachia, a prestigious school whose activity continued with the current “Elena Cuza” National College’s activity.
In the first part of the 19th century (before 1835), magistrate Iordache Otetelișanu opened in the rental house, off the Saint Ilie Church income, a boarding school for girls. On March 21st 1836, cupbearer Constantin Lazăr left in his will the houses he had in Craiova from his wife Zoița Pârșcoveanca, in order for a boarding school for girls to be built there. In 1837, the brothers Iordache and Grigore Otetelișanu created a will project through which they decided, with the money given by Saint Ilie Church, whose guardians they were, to turn the Lazaro houses in a boarding school for girls.
This is how the Lazaro-Otetelișanu boarding school for girls was founded and maintained, the second school in Craiova after the Central School open in 1826, today the “Carol I” National College and the first central school for girls in Wallachia, today the “Elena Cuza” National College.
In 1844, magistrate Iordache Otetelișanu dies and his role as school protector is taken over by his brother, Turkish chief Grigorie Otetelișanu. The situation caused by the Crimean War (1853-1856) contributed to the temporary closing of the schools and thus of the „Lazaro-Otetelișanu” boarding school, whose residence served as military refuge for the Russian troupes. The reopening of the school happens in 1854 in commander Braboveanu’s houses and in 1855 the school moves to P. Poenaru’s houses, on Sabinelor Street. In 1860, the school goes under state administration and is placed under a committee’s control and monitoring. During this time, the school functioned with six grades: four elementary and two superior. According to the instruction law from 1864, the “Lazaro Otetelișanu” institute seizes its activity and with it disappears the name of its founders. After 1864, the boarding school became a central school with five elementary grades. In his will dated December 8th 1869, Grigore Otetelișanu leaves his entire fortune to his nephew Costică N. Otetelișanu and his son Grigore, obligating the first to “equip the school and library with engineering and other sciences’ instruments and off the funds of the church and school to raise a building for their placement and the building of a museum.” The institute building was raised again in 1871, its constructor being Constantin Otetelișanu, who followed as constructor to Grigore Otetelișanu. 
Nowadays, the building serves as a secondary premises (building B) for the “Elena Cuza” National College, students between grades 1 through 4 and 5 through 8 studying here. The building was claimed by the Oltenia Metropolitan Church, to which the building was attributed in 2007 by a special retrocession commission of some assets that belonged to religious cults in Romania.



