In the central area of the city of Craiova, in the immediate vicinity of the Madona Dudu Church and of the Central school for girls, Saint Nicholas Church - Brândușa is a historic monument and religious architecture full of charm, with an intimate and profound atmosphere. The church is dedicated to Saint Nicholas (December 6th), Saint Parascheva (October 14th), Saint Filoteia (December 7th) and since the last sanctification (June 3rd 1991), the first Sunday after Rusalii is celebrated, the Sunday of all Saints. The name Brândușa under which it is known, comes, however, from the name of one of the oldest quarters in Craiova. 
The first documented mention of the Brândușa Church dates back to 1746, when it is believed that the city of Craiova was devised in fiscal districts. At that time, the church was in the old settlement of the city’s perimeter, close to Piața Veche, Băniei House and Purcarului Fountain near the old Hurezu Inn. Not far from the church, on Barați Street, during the Austrian domination of the first half of the 18th century (1718-1739), functioned a Catholic church (Franciscan friars monastery) through which Catholicism was promoted.
Although the building year is not exactly known, it is considered that the Brândușa Church was founded from the ground up in 1793, on the ground of an old wooden church. The founders of the church were nomadic gipsy Ștefan Pârșcoveanu, stolnic Ioan Brăiloiu, Dumitrache Vicșoreanu, logothete Radu Pleșoianu and Captain Radu Măinescu (of the Măinescu landowners family). A year later, in 1794, the holy church was fully completed, the believers of the area attended Eucharist masses and other liturgical services. In a document printed in Ramnic there is a mention of the church made by one of the priests serving at Brândușa Church in 1794: “This document of the month of January is of the holy church that celebrates Saint Nicholas day and Saint Parascheva from Craiova, called Brândușa and I have written so that this be known, June 4th, 1794, Poapa Iovan ot tam.”
Brândușa Church has the same shape it had when it was built, in 1793. It is built of narrow brick wall in the shape of a ship, in semicircle towards the East, and towards the West with open verandah sustained by four round brick pillars. It does not have steeples, being the only church in Craiova built in this style. 
The altar, semicircular, is separated from the nave by the wall screen, all the way down. Inside, the church is paved with boards and in the verandah with stripe brick.
In the church, there is by the altar, a shrine of relics of the Saint Martyrs from Hozeva (March 20th) and St. Filoteia’s Icon, which, according to a 1900 document, is declared as performing miracles. St. Filoteia and St. Nicholas Icons date back to the 18th century and the one representing St. Parascheva, to the 19th century.

