
The fountain was built around the year 1800 by landowner Hagi Stan Jianu and redone in 1930.
Hagi Stan Jianu, the son of cupbearer Chiriac Jianu, was a landowner in Craiova that has had different ranks and important titles over the years (former logothete in 1768, cupbearer in 1780 under King Alexandru Ipsilanti, former high court marshal until 1790, during the Phanariot reign of Nicolae Mavrogheni, cupbearer until 1794). According to Nicolae Iorga, he would have also had diplomatic missions abroad (he went to Constantinople to facilitate magistrate Ștefan Pârșcoveanu’s reign).
Married to cupbearer’s wife Ilinca Jianca, Hagi Stan Jianu had daughters and three sons, them having in turn, their own functions in high office: Zamfir (Lord Steward in 1781), Gheorghiță (high nomadic gypsy in 1781), Stăn (uț) (high cavalry commander in 1787, high bread maker in 1792, cupbearer in 1821).
Hagi Stan Jianu was also the guardian of the Obedeanu landowners’ fortune and also church founder. Jianu raises Bășica church, together with his father, but his work of art remains the church in Preajba. 
Here he builds a church with chapels for friars and poor people, and then turned into a skit and also a school (the oldest school in the village), inn and mansion. Aside from these, nowadays a Jianu house from Craiova was kept, currently on Constantin Lecca str. (former Comuna din Paris).
The Jianu Fountain was built around the year 1800 by landowner Hagi Stan Jianu in a quarter on the outskirts of then Craiova, where carters used to stop before going into town, to water their animals. It quickly became one of the main water sources of the quarter and not only, water carriers selling water from here all over town. The name of the fountain comes from the name of the landowner who built it, but tradition associates it with that of the famous outlaw Iancu Jianu, who is said to have made a halt at an inn nearby.
Mid 19th century, near the fountain, on the grounds of the current Botanical Garden in Craiova, was the house of Alexandru Macedonski’s family, where the future poet grew up. It is said that he was inspired by the bucolic scenery of the park in the area, which he later described in many poems.
Around 1930, the Jianu Fountain was completely redone to its current shape. The fountain is built in four plain, with four columns (two columns in the back and two in the front) that create open arches on three sides and sustain a spherical bow. 

