The monument of Tudor Vladimirescu in Craiova is a public monument of local interest, work of the French sculptor of Romanian origin Margareta Cosăceanu-Lavrillier. The work in bronze, donated to the town of Craiova by the artist, was inaugurated in 1960. The monument is placed in the square in front of the Agronomy Faculty, overlooking the Mihai Bravu Garden and beyond it, towards Glogoveanu House – the old residence of the Craiova Courthouse, where the leader of the 1821 revolution used to live. On the base of the statue there is a plaque with applied letters: “Tudor Vladimirescu 1780-1821”.
Tudor Vladimirescu (1780, Vladimiri Gorj – May 27th 1821, near Târgoviște) was a prominent figure in the history of Wallachia at the beginning of the 19th century, being the leader of the 1821 revolution and of the pandours. Born in a freeholders’ family, Tudor was sent to Craiova to join landowner Ioniță Glogoveanu’s service, whose houses he lived in. He went to Obedeanu School in Craiova, where he studied and learned Greek and in time became estate administrator and confident of landowner Glogoveanu. At the age of 18 he left the landowner’s house and joined the pandours, where he had a fulminating advancement, participating in the Russian- Turkish war from 1806 to 1812. As a civilian, Tudor did cattle and cereal trade and estate leasing.
Being in the country’s capital for an estate trial in front of the Divan, Tudor found out about the hetaeria decision to start the liberation of Greece. Thinking this was the right time to call the Romanian people to battle, for the “pandours to facilitate Ipsilanti’s crossing of the Danube”. He signed a deal with the administration committee through which Tudor was going to call “the north to arms”, with the objective to remove the Phanariot regime.
On January 23rd 1821, through the Pades Proclamation, addresses to the Wallachia inhabitants, Tudor Vladimirescu justified the calling to arms with the right to resistance and oppression that derives from the national sovereignty principle. The extremely revolutionary content of the proclamation, that didn’t limit itself to overturning the Turkish domination and proclaiming the country’s independence, also included social claims, like equality for all citizens to the law and abolishing of the landowners’ privileges, which scared them and made them send troops to stop him. 
In the spring of 1821, Vladimirescu entered Bucharest, taking over the country’s leadership.
After the czar of Russia disavowed both Vladimirescu’s revolution and the hetaeria movement, depriving them of a possible help from the Turkish people, the relationship between Tudor and Ipsilanti worsened.
With the Turkish troops’ intervention against the hetaeria, Tudor adopted a neutral position and left Bucharest, heading towards Oltenia. The hetaeria leaders plotted to remove Tudor. Taken by betrayal from Golești and taken to Târgoviște, in front of Ipsilanti, Tudor was killed by the hetaeria heads, probably blamed for collaborating with the Turkish people against the hetaeria, which history never confirmed.
The 1821 revolution, lead by Tudor Vladimirescu managed, however, to end the Phanariot regime, reestablishing the local reigns and was the setting for the 1848 Romanian revolution.

