The Ionel (Iancu) Pleșia house is a 19th century architectural monument.  An architectonics treasure both on the outside and as far as the gorgeous interiors are concerned, the Pleșia house is residence today to the Omnia branch of the Romania National Library. 
The Ionel Pleșia house was built between 1890 and 1892 in eclectic style with a neoclassical prevalence on the façade and neo Baroque inside. The architect is unknown but it is thought that the imposing building is the work of French founder Albert Galleron.
The building was confiscated in the 50s by the Romanian state.
In September 1989, in the Mirrors Room in the Pleșia House there was a conference presided by Zoia Ceaușescu, who, fascinated by the building’s beauty, suggested to Nicolae and Elena Ceaușescu to turn it into the third residence in Craiova (near Barbu Drugă and Jianu House). The remodeling work was cancelled with the revolution.
Afterwards, the bases of the prestigious cultural institution that is the Omnia French Library were set here. On May 25th 1990, by order signed by the Ministry of culture at the time, Andrei Pleșu, the Omnia library became a branch of the Romania National Library.
The Pleșia family was a lineage of landowners from Oltenia, in the first half of the 19th century. They became great estate holders, with lands and properties in almost all of Oltenia.
The Pleșia house was built by Iancu (or Ion G) Pleșa, with a law degree from the Faculty in Paris. Iancu is remembered as the owner of the Cetate estate. Iancu’s son, Ionel Pleșia was born on April 6th in his parents’ home, which he later inherited. Ionel was a lawyer, senator in the Romanian Parliament in Brătianu’s liberal party. According to some documents, Ioan Pleșa, the last head of the liberal organization in Dolj, before communism was instated, died in the Văcărești State hospital, of pneumonia, catching it from prisons, as many law degree holders on that time.
Nowadays, The Pleșia house is property of the Romanian State through the Ministry of Culture and under the administration of the Romanian National library, through the Omnia branch in Craiova.
The Pleșia house has a height regime on four levels (basement, ground floor, first floor and gable), with a large number of rooms and halls disposed thusly: basement – 8 rooms + halls; ground floor – 7 rooms + halls; first floor – 6 rooms + the Mirrors’ Room (the most spectacular room in the building) + halls; gable – 5 rooms + halls + attic. The decoration of the rooms, which mostly lasted until today, is owed to Austrian and Italian craftsmen. Those who cross the library threshold can still admire the lamellate parquet, the ceilings painted in neoclassical style with stucco and golden quadrants and dados and doors in massive wood, sculpted. The strained-glass windows, done in the Romanian school spirit, have geometric and floral motifs, the entry doors have crystal windows and the interior stairwell and ironmongery are in baroque style. The halls decorated with Venice mirrors (infinite mirrors) stand out, terra-cotta fireplaces, the fire resistant   Milner’s Patent English safe and a few original candelabra.
.

