The house belonged to the remarkable businessman Barbu Drugă who lived between 1881 and 1969, promoter and creator of some economic and social cultural objectives in Oltenia.
The architect of the house– I. Theodoru
Constructor – ing. Giovanni Batista
Barbu Drugă was one of the greatest landowners of that time, but also owned some houses, mills and lands. The businessman also owned an impressive art collection, most of the works being copies.
Landowner Barbu Drugă had his estate in Cetate, on the Danube bank. He built a bridge in the area, inaugurated in 1904 and immediately after merchants from all over Europe came on the Danube to buy Romanian grains and corn. People in the area said that soon their small town became blooming. Over 300 people worked in the harbor. Barbu Drugă was an important figure for Cetate. He opened the harbor at the Danube to facilitate cereal export. The mill in the area had the most advanced equipment. 
Initially, Dinel Staicu’s villa, called „Casa Bujorului”, originally belonged to landowner 	Barbu Drugă and during the communist period it was Nicolae Ceauşescu’s house. The house was built by the famous architect Giovanni Battista, the same one that designed the Dolj Prefect’s office, the Craiova and Bucharest City hall headquarters. Staicu bought Barbu Drugă’s heirs’ succession rights. Although the house was completely redone, keeping the inter-war style here and there, over the landowners’ strained glass PVC was added.
Barbu Drugă died in extreme poverty because the communists took his fortune.
At the beginning of the 20th century, in a time when, in Oltenia, in a lot of the crafts and professions foreign workers distinguished themselves, friulian Giovanni Batista Peressutti raised civil buildings construction to the level of art.
Giovanni Batista Peressutti was born September 20th 1880 in Pinzano al Tagliamento (35 km from Udine), Italia. He went to elementary school in Finzanoa and high school in San Daniele and Udine (Italia); afterwards he went to General Studies University (Udine-Italia) and Sala University (Padova-Italia), after which he got an engineering degree in constructions.
According to Paolo Tomasella’s doctoral thesis, “Emigranții din Veneto și din Friuli în viața economică și culturală a vechiului Regat (1848-1948)”, Peressutti arrived in Romania at the end of the first decade in the 20th century, as a seasonal worker. We think, however, that Peressutti came to Craiova much sooner, in 1895 (according to the individual businessman license nr. 045064, issued in 1930 by the Ministry of Work, Heath and Social Guardianship – Work directive – the service of work placement, unemployment and immigration), coming back afterwards, after finalizing his studies, to work and settle down here with his family. Although Craiova was known for its strong Italian community, the friendship between Giovanni Batista and architect Petre Antonescu, whom he met during his student years in Padova, also contributed to the Peressutti family’s settling into town. In 1909, Antonescu entrusted Peressutti with the construction of one of the most important buildings he designed, the Administrative Pallace, today the Prefect office in Dolj.

