Not far from the old merchant center in Craiova, the Saints Michael and Gavriil Church is a holy church built on 16th century grounds, when it was raised by members of the Buzești landowner family. Nowadays, the church-monument is dedicated to the celebrations of Saints Archangels Mihail și Gavriil, Saints Three Hierarchs Vasile cel Mare, Grigore Teologul and Ioan Gură de Aur and Izvorul Tămăduirii). 
According to tradition, the Saints Michael and Gavriil Church was built by the Buzești landowner family towards the end of the 16th century. At that time, near this church, on the spot where the parish house is today, there is also a small chapel, a community of monks.
In the second half of the 18th century, the church was rebuilt, now “in the spirit of a holy oiled church built at the expense of a community of merchants or industrialists with the purpose to serve as a place to worship and burial of its members”.
The January 11th 1838 earthquake ruins the church building, which is fixed between 1855 and 1857 at the parishioners’ expense.
At the beginning of the 20th century, Saints Archangels Church was reconstructed again with radical repairs under the management of the Historic monuments Commission and at the expense of Mrs. Polina Vorvoreanu. Her support, of 2 million lei at that time, was offered in memory of her late husband Gogu Vorvoreanu (lawyer, great landowner, former mayor of Craiova).
The general repairs that lasted 3 years completely changed the church exterior and at the same time the painting was redone. On this occasion the Buzești brothers were painted in the church. The church was sanctified on a Sunday, October 23rd 1932. At the parish priest V. Marghescu’s suggestion, the Craiova Archiepiscopate decided that the church “be called the «Gheorghe și Polina Vorvoreanu Church», dedicated to the Saints Archangels”, as a sign of gratitude for their generous contribution to rebuild the church.
According to the Oltenia Metropolitan Church census – “Vieața Bisericească în Oltenia” in 1941, the parish of the St. Archangels Church counted at the time 81 families and 324 souls. The church had a parish house and a 361 volume library.
The March 4th 1977 earthquake severely damaged the church, that incurred many cracks and the central steeple was torn down. For several months, there weren’t any masses, after which only a part of the nave was open, until 1986 when, after the central steeple was raised and consolidated, the church was reopen.
The church was has one steeple, placed above the nave and a verandah open on arcades and sustained by brick columns.
Inside it houses worship objects of great value, of which seven large silver candles designed in Pitești by Ștefan Argintarul in 1886, a silver archangel of 80 cm, kingly candlesticks in the shape of antique Greek columns, decorated with bronze icons representing the Virgin Mary, a chandelier from 1831, icon and old service books from the 18th and 19th centuries.

