
In 1935 it was decided, out of a public initiative, the building of a monument of Eugeniu Carada in Craiova, to celebrate the one hundred year anniversary since his birth. In the contest initiated for assigning the project, sculptors S. Severin and Mihai Onofrei participated, the evaluation commission accepting the latter’s. The statue was raised with the substantial support of the National Bank.
According to the contract between the statue building committee and Mihai Onofrei, the monument cost 175.000 lei, without the base, which was to be built by the committee following the artists’ pattern.
The contract contained the provision that the statue would be 2.30 m high, a bas-relief of 0.45 x 0.50 m, a palm tree branch, all these pieces molded in bronze, evaluated at 160000 lei, to which 15000 lei was added for two more bas-reliefs. The deadline to turn them to the foundry was October 1st and to bring them to Craiova October 30th 1936.
The statue of Eugeniu Carada, molded in bronze, a bit larger in size than the natural one, shows Carada standing. On the back of the base we can read the inscription: “For a free Romania, whenever, however, with whomever and against whomever. Eugeniu Carada, 1860”. On the other three sides of the base there are three bas-reliefs in bronze, showing Carada as a journalist at the 
“Românul” newsroom, as a creator of the Constitution text (presenting the project in the Senate) and on the battle field, as organizer of the intendance service, also organizer of the military leadership and even of the Romanian army in the 1877- 1878 war. In front, on the base, there is also Eugeniu Carada’s name inscribed and the years of his life: 1836-1910. 
The monument of Eugeniu Carada was placed in the square known as the Romanescu Fountain in Craiova (today near the Students’ house, at the intersection of the Arieș, C. D. Fortunescu and Eugeniu Carada streets) and unveiled on March 28th 1937.
Later on, the statue was moved in the garden on Maxim Gorki str. (today Madona Dudu Str.), near the Madona Dudu church. Due to the limited visibility which that placing offered, the statue was brought back to the original settlement. On that occasion, the street west of the square where there statue is place, was named after Eugeniu Carada.
In 2012, at the same time as the works on the underground passage in Craiova, the monument was raised from the base and moved to the Nicolae Romanescu Park. As of the fall of 2014, the statue can be admired on its original settlement.
Eugeniu Carada (1836-1910) was a Romanian political economist and writer.
Together with C.A. Rosetti, Ion C. Brătianu and other politicians of that time, they founded the Romanian press and economy. He had major roles in the 1859 Unification, the 1877 Independence, redacted, together with Ion Brătianu, the 1866 Constitution and sustained both financially and morally, the fight of Romanians in the dominated territories. Also, he was a talented writer, his writings being made up especially of newspaper articles and also plays and poems.



