
Saint Dumitru Church, also known as the kingly church, Băneasa Church or the Metropolitan Cathedral, is the oldest and most important religious building in Craiova. In the central area of the town, very close to the Băniei house, the church was progressively built, over the centuries, on grounds that date, according to some hypotheses, around the 11th -12th centuries. 
Built by ban Barbu Craiovescu, rebuilt by Matei Basarab, restructured and fixed by king Constantin Brâncoveanu and the local landowners (Obedeanu, Argetoianu) and rebuilt from the ground up and under the protection of king Carol I, the St. Dumitru church is currently the most important spiritual centers and one of the most important tourist attractions in Craiova.
According to the St. Dumitru cathedral history, the beginnings of the Church seem to coincide with the historical existence of Craiova itself. Although it cannot be surely stated what the date of the first church in this space was or the name of the first founder, archeological diggings done in 1888 brought to light evidence that indicate the fact that the oldest St. Dumitru church “belongs to the 8th – 9th centuries”. Other opinions which were never confirmed with documents sustain the hypothesis according to which the church was raised in the times of the Petru and Asan bothers of the Asănești dynasty (12th century), of prince Ioan (13th century) and even of great king Mircea cel Batran (1355 – 1418). 
Historian Petre Constantinescu- Iași ties the church construction to the victory of the latter over the Turkish people at Rovine (1395).
According to most historical opinion, the St. Dumitru wall church – Băneasa or kingly – was built by the great Ban Barbu Craiovescu, Neagoe din Craiova’s oldest son, the founder of the Craiovesti family. He owned the estate and the town of Craiova even before 1500. The name Băneasa church comes from the fact that it was thought as an old foundation of the Craiovesti family, who produced a long line of Bans of Craiova, an argument to this end being how close the Banesti houses were to them. The kingly church was given to the church due to the fact that a lot of the Wallachian kings were from the family of its founders (Neagoe Basarab in the 16th century, Matei Basarab in the 17th century and Constantin Brâncoveanu in the 17th and 18th centuries), each of them paying attention to the church’s needs.
Nowadays, the church hosts the relics of Saint Hierarch Nifon, Constantinople’s patriarch, Saints Serghie and Vah, advisors of emperor Maximian and martyrs of Christ and of Saint Martyr Tatiana Diaconița.

