

The fountain is in Piața Elca (Piața Veche), the old center and commercial crossing of the city, near the Puțureanu Inn and close to the Băniei house, St. Dumitru Cathedraland the ruins of the Hurezi Inn.

It was built in 1818 by Pavel Teodor and Kir Marin Bulugbașa (or Miron Bulucbașa, according to other sources), pig merchants. Although the fountain represented the only water supply of the inhabitants in the area, her importance decreased at the beginning of the 20th century, since Craiova was equipped with water supply systems.
The people in Craiova who did not live too close to a public fountain bought their water from the suppliers. The 60 water suppliers in Craiova from a century ago sold “Jianu drinkable water” but at 10 bani an oka and „Obedeanu water, for washing“at 5 bani an oka. The water suppliers disappeared after the water supply system was put in place. Purcarului fountain was repaired many times over the years, restorations making its current shape to be completely different from the initial. Although in the “Istoria ilustrată a Craiovei” book, there are two restorations mentioned, one in 1927 and one in 1943, an article by N. Gh. Dinculescu from the 1928 Oltenia Archives mention that “on the St. Dumitru street in Craiova close to the Elca Square, there is a drinking fountain in ruin, whose being is over a century”. According to Dinculescu’s article, at that time the original inscription, on which the founders and the year of the fountain’s building: “In the name of the holy and life giving and indivisible Crucifix this fountain was built with the work and expense of the late master Mr. Pavel Teodor and the work of Mărin Bulugbașa himself, to their own and their families’ memory and others that have helped build this church. Amin 7326 [illegible, Slavic inscription] 818 Iun.”
Despite the fact that in time the earth around it rose, she kept at the old level of the square and it is working to this day. It was given to the care of the cathedral close by, both going through time as great symbols.
To be kept in mind that, after a statistics done in 1833, Craiova had 23 rock drinking fountains and over 260 fountains. Of those, only the four we have discussed have remained functional, a few others remaining only as decorating elements. This is the case for: Mântuleasa Fountain, Prisaca Fountain of the Plaiul Vulcăneşti, Calea Bechetului Fountain, Calea Caracălului Fountain, Chiriac Fountain, Bariera Vâlcii Fountain etc. 


