Saint Nicholas Church from Maglavit is a place of worship built in the year 1845 having the shape of a cross and a bell tower almost entirely from wood.
Saint Nicholas is celebrated on the 6th of December. Of Greek origin (Nikolaos), the name is formed from two words: nike, “victory” (from nikao, “to defeat”), and laos, “people”, being able to be deciphered as the “mass victory”. Saint Nicholas lived during the times of the Emperors Diocletian and Maximilian. Firstly he shined through the monk living; and for his improved life he was named bishop.
Nicolas was born in a wealthy family, and after his parents died, he used his assets in order to help the poor people. Because the saint preached with courage the faith in Christ he was caught by the great grand of the citadel, he was beaten and tortured, and then he was thrown in prison, together with other Christians. When the emperor Constantin became Emperor of the Romans, they were set free from the bearings all the ones who were closed and, together with them, also Saint Nicholas, who went in Myra. Not after a long time, it was gathered by the great Constantin the first assembly from Niceea, at which Nicholas also partakes.
He was named cardinal of the region Myra and he is known for the miracles which he accomplished throughout his life and for his generosity. He died on the 6th of December 345 (or 352, according to other sources), being since then celebrated in every year starting with this date. Many churches were built under the titular saint of Saint Nicholas, him also being one of the most painted saints in the icons. He is known as the spiritual guardian of some countries such as Germany, Holland, Russia, Romania, Switzerland, but at the same time he is the protector of the sailors, of the unmarried girls, of the poor and, not lastly, of the children.
The legend of Santa Nicolas says the fact that Saint Nicholas helped three poor girls from his city, bringing them dowry gifts, at night, without being seen. Their father planned to sell his girls in order to get rich. The old man wasn’t limbered by the tears and the grief of the girls, but Saint Nicolas found out about the adversity which was happening and came in their help. On the night, in secret, he threw a bag full of golden coins in the room of the oldest daughter. Therefore, he succeeded to get married soon. He did the same thing in the following two years, and the middle daughter and then the little daughter managed to settle at their own homes. Their father decided however, that before the marriage of the youngest child, to sneak upon Nicolas. Therefore he saw him when he climbed on the roof of the house this time and he let go on the horn to a small bag. Since then, the legend of Santa Nicolas says the fact that he never shows himself, as does Santa Claus, but he doesn’t forget to repay the good children and to bring wands to the bad children. 

