It was built in 1662 by king Grigore Ghica and later transformed between 1784 and 1794. A fortified church, with a massive and tall bell tower, thick walls and narrow shooting windows, allowing access from the inside. It is part of the former monastary complex, of which several ruins of the chapels and the inside wall exist. Together with Gura Motrului, Topolniţa, Valea cu Apă, the Cerneţi Monastary was one of the succursal monasteries dedcated to the Tismana and Bistriţa monastaries.
Cerneţi Monastary is known in history as an bishopric settlement, attested as an episcopal settlement of monks and as the last living bishop Protosinghelul Ghenadie is mentioned, deceased in 1837. The masses in the monastary church was officiated for a while by the parish priest and from 1970 it was listed in the patrimony of the „Porţile de Fier” museum, when all of the worship objects were included in the museum storage, where they can be seen today.
According to the statutary provvisions, the Diocesan counsil of the Severinului and Strehaiei bishopric, in the working meeting from decemeber 16th 2004, debated and approved the reactivation of the Holy trinity Monastary from Cerneţi and the Metrolpolitan Synod of the Oltenia Metropolitan church, in the meeting held on Iuly 5th 2005, approved the foundation of this monastic house who will function in the Drobeta Turnu-Severin Sud district.
In August 2007, began the digging works of the foundation for two chapel buildings, as well as for a refectory and a kitchen.
Cerneţi Monastary is currently a monastary of nuns, with two livings.
Cerneți is a town in Mehedinți county, Oltenia. Before the town of Severin was founded, Cerneți was for many centuries the center of the Mehedinți county, having shops with merchants and Mehedinți landowners’ houses (Glogovenii, Miculeștii, Tudor Vladimirescu etc.). Afterwards Cerneți quickly fell, as such when N. Iorga visited the location, the former town was reduced to a settlement with „short houses”.
Among the local personalities we have Dimitrie Grecescu (1841 – 1910), botanist, doctor, tenured member of the Romanian Academy and Ioan G. Bibicescu (1949 – 1924), publicist, politician, economist, governor of the Romanian National bank.

