
The name of Obârșia de Câmp is of Slavic origin and comes from the establishment of this village on the place where there are met many river heads, which were channeled meanwhile and arranged by the inhabitants for pisciculture and recreation.
The commune is composed of two villages, Izimșa and Obârșia de Câmp, it is situated at 65 km S – E from Drobeta Turnu – Severin, at 25 km distance from the Maglavit railway station and 5 km from the commune Cujmir.
The documents found in the archive of the congregation or at the National Institute of Historical Monuments offer us brief information about the church.
From these documents comes out the fact that in the center of the village Obârșia de Câmp it is built up the church with the titular saint of “Saint Nicholas”. Started in the year 1802 and finished in the year 1812, the church is the foundation of the family of aristocrats Gănescu Ilie.
The “Saint Nicholas” church has a rectangular plan, without towers or lateral apses, finished towards the east with a semicircular apse at the interior and polygonal at the exterior. The body of the church which closes the proper ritual space is of small dimensions, measuring at the interior 16, 80 m length, 5, 76 m width and a height in the nave of 7, 26 m.
In the church there isn’t any kind of inscription. Although the inscription was no longer kept, from the existent documents in the archive of the National Institute of Historical Monuments, in the “Monument Chart” compiles in the year 1963 there is still known its text: “This holy church with the titular saint of the Saint Hierarch Nicholas was built up from the foundation in the year 1802 by the aristocrat Ioan Gănescu. Through the works and the expense of the church goers from the commune Obârșia de Câmp, there were made small reparations in the year 1913, and in the year 1953 there were made general reparations.”

The church received in the interior a painted decoration executed in the technique “a fresco”. Information about the author of the painting isn’t known, its name not being registered in the inscription. At the interventions from the years 1913 and 1956 it is known the fact that the painting “was washed” and then it was integrated. Currently there are working at the re-conditioning of the painting.
An element which produces a change in the plan of the church was the adding of an open porch on the western façade of the church. In no document kept there is recorded the date of building the porch. It isn’t know whether at the origins in its place existed something, but in the year 1935, in an archive photography, the entrance is protected by a cover executed from wood and covered with plates. 
From the monument’s chart executed by the architect Iancu Atănăsescu in the year 1963 we still have a series of information: the adding of a new pedestal, about the covering and arching system of the church, which was modified between the years 1958 and 1902.
The church was also added in the year 2002 cement feet walk, and in 2004 a boarded floor made of brad board existent in the year 1963, extremely damaged, was replaced by a boarded floor made of colored floor tiles.
The bell tower is separated in the church courtyard, built up in the year 1993, by the church goers Gheoghe Popescu (Berbec), with a concrete foundation, the rest made of wood and roof made of plates. The bell tower was also modified, currently being an entirely metallic construction. 
In the interior of the church, in the year 2003 it was built up a Monument of heroes dedicated to heroes from the two world wars. 

