
The “Saint Apostles” Church from Comănești is founded in the period 1879 – 1881. One of the most important elements which can be re-found in the place of worship is the old icon from the year 1459.
Built up on the place of an old skete, executed by Milon Iuzbasa. In the Inscription it is recorded the year of the foundation as being 1879 and the year of the painting, 1882, painter Simeon Ionescu from Turnu Severin. On an interior painting there were found portrayed in color the founders: C-tin Frânculescu and his wife, Dumitra, Ilinca M. Scânteie with their son and priest D. Comanescu with his wife and son.
At the anaphora there is seen the name of the hieromonarch Elisei and of the nun Metodia, buried in the cemetery near the church. A document kept by the parish priest Blaj illustrates the leaving of the priest Elisei from the Meteora Monastery, me and my brother into faith Pahomie, to be delivered from the mean and malicious people, because the faith isn’t for everyone. And into the deceit of the injustice I will give by writing under the title of fortune to be inherited, with the hope that by God’s mercy you will follow us for all these good things.
Situated at the skirt of the hill, surrounded by old crosses, some of them with Cyrillic inscriptions, according to the architectonic posture this church has personality.
In the proximity there is also found a beautiful wooden roadside cross, built up in the year 1941.
In the locality Bala there were found a few Roman traces, fact which shows the fact that here existed a native population which the Romans have conquered. The Roman ruins were found even in the village Cârșu, as it was outlined by the archeologist Dumitru Tudor: Cârșu (com. Bala) here there are reported antique ruins which were taken out of the bronze sestertius from Traian (Moisil Creșt collection in the year A.D. Rom. 1939 – 1940, p. 144). Roman coins and the rests of some river beds from oak wood were discovered in the area of the bath, a signal that they were known even in the period of the Romans.
In the village Dâlma, which belonged to the commune, in the place named the Hill of the Vâlculești, was localized a Roman cemetery, as it is mentioned by the same archeologist.
Another old document which certified the locality Bala, from the 15th of February 1692 is in original from a village woman from Bala de Sus, Sabinescu Maria, who, by her goodwill have the permission to Mister Petre Scurtu, the creator of the museum from the locality and author of several other books. 


