THE CHARGE MEMORIAL MONUMENT, PRUNARU

In 1933, in the military cemetary compound, in the memory of the heros of Regiment 2 Rosiori a memorial monument was raised represented by a bronze statue portarying a vulture with its wings spread. On the hundreds of white crosses of the soldiers there can now be read the names of heroes like ”Officer Florea” or ” Officer Mitrică”, who gave their lives for their country’s defense.
The village of Prunaru was the setting for the most heroic fights the Romanian army fought in WWI. The charge in Prunaru or the cavalry charge happened on November 28th 1916 and it was an operation part of the „Battle for Bucharest”, as historians record it.
The Central Powers sought to block the Romanian army between the Danube and the Carpathians, conquer Bucharest and remove Romania from the war. Prunaru was the area where the allied enemy forces surrounded the Romanian army. According to historians, the German and Turkish infantries had advanced towards Zimnicea- Drăgănești Vlașca-Bucharest and the Bulgarian one towards Zimnicea-Giurgiu, occupying Giurgiu. The 18 division Romanian infantry tried to fight off the enemies along the Teleorman river bank. The Germans occupied Prunaru village in the after noon of November 27th and threatened to surround the Romanian division, the only one standing in the way of conquering Bucharest.
To avoid the surrounding, the commander of the 18 Division Infantry, general Alexandru Refendaru decided to attack the enemies from the Dragănești-Vlașca area with the 43 mixte brigade and the 2nd regiment Rosiori. In the dawn of November 28th there were fierce battles outside Prunaru, after which the 43rd brigade was surrounded by the enemies. The fate of the Romanian soldiers blocked by the Germans stood in the hands of the 300 members of Regiment 2 Rosiori who had to join a suicide mission to open the way for the division that was going to protect Bucharest to retreat.
Once the attack order was received, the 300 cavaliers of Regiment 2 Rosiori descended upon the enemies in an atrocious fight scene. In front of the Germans armed with machine guns and strategically positioned in the village, the hero soldiers used the bullet stricken horses as a shield. Historians record the fact that the village turned battlefield, was filled with hundreds of bodies.

