CITY HALL, ROȘIORII DE VEDE

The city hall building is rectangular in plain and develops with one floor on height. The frame type roof, on seats, is covered in iron tin. The plastic solution of this building is characterized by the interpretation of the old architecture elements’ interpretation – the three bay windows on the central pediment of the facade, the window frames and doors and the tendancy to monumentalize them. The building was built in an ecclectic style, with architecture elements from abroad, combined with elements of old Romanian architecture. The simple, functional structure is found in the interior partition. The building is a historical monument listed in the „List of historical monuments” in Teleorman county.
The building use, the fact that it reached its purpose, also sits in the fact that after a century of functioning there were no major modifications done. It remained one of the most symbolic buildings in Teleorman county built in the inter war period.
The institution of the Roşiorii de Vede city hall as a management and administration authority is first identified in the „organic bylaws” in Wallachia, in 1831 and 1832 after the strong movement lead by Tudor Vladimirescu and the Russian occupation in the principalities, who have foreseen that the urban communal authority be represented by the „City counsil”, elected from the inhabitants of age who have turned 25 and possesed a certain fortune. The organization of the urban villages, according to the organic bylaws, as well as the provisions of Law no.2 from April 1864 have lead the way to a wider local autonomy, as the 1866 Constitution would foresee, which regulated, among other things, the decentralization, as a principle in the local authorities’ activity. The law from April 2nd 1864 sanctioned the city counsils as deliberative authorities made up of 5 to 17 members according to the population numbers. The mayor in his quality of head of local administration and representative of the central power, also had pretty significant and diverse powers, still under the government authority. It is the case of towns: Ruşii de Vede Târgul Ocna, Piscul, Câmpulung, Baia de Aramă, Podul Lipscanilor, Urlaţi, Vălenii de Munte and Câmpina.

