The bust of Nicolae Bălcescu was inaugurated in 1957.
On June 29, 1819 was born in Bucharest Nicolae Bălcescu son of baker Barbu sin Petre the capitan and of Zinca Bălcescu. He attends the College of St. Sava having as teachers Florin Aaron and Heliade Rădulescu; the portrait of Bălcescu in his adolescence was made by Ion Ghica in one of his Letters.
In 1840 together with Bolliac and Eftimie Murgu, takes part in the conspiracy of D. Filipescu, but this conspiracy fails and he is put in detention at Mărgineni monastery, where his health and gets worse.
In 1843, Nicolae Bălcescu together with Ion Ghica and with Cristian Tell founds the secret society called The Brotherhood, which had as purpose the preparation of the revolutionary movements of 1848.
In 1844 appears in the Propășirea, the magazine of Kogălniceanu and Alecsandri, the first historical writting, "The military power and the military art from the foundation of the Wallachia's Principality until now", that Iorga considers "a wonderful chapter of history"  that would not be that bad under the pen of a historian today.”
 In the magazin Propășirea appears Bălcescu's study, Comments on Battle of Riga Hill or Coşovo.
Under the care of Bălcescu and of Laurian appears the first volume of Chroniclers of Romanian Country.
In 1846 N. Bălcescu begins writting his mastepiece, Romanians under Prince Michael the Brave.
In the period June to September 1848 Nicolae Bălcescu is the ruler of the Romanian Country revolutionary movement; this being defeated Bălcescu is exiled in Paris; then because of his lung disease that got worse, he settles for small periods of time in various places in France and Italy.
Also in Paris, under the leadership of Bălcescu and of several exiles, "Future Romania" appears in a single number; here were published several important works of Romanian literature as: Cântarea României by Alecu Russo (French version), Mersul revoluției în istoria românilor by Nicolae Bălcescu and La o pasere trecătoare by D. Bolintineanu.
 As a result, in 1851 is established in Paris, under the guidance of Bălcescu, "Junimea română", a political and cultural society of young people; among these was also Al. I. Odobescu, an avid admirer of Bălcescu.
He died at Palermo, but was not buried in the pit of the poor as has been written, but transported to the Capuchin monastery, specialized in mummification. His mummy can be seen in our days, in the gallery of that monastery, having the inscription: "Nicolae Bălcescu Prime Minister of Walachia."

