
Mircea cel Batran is the one who rebuilt and strengthened Turnu fortress as protection against the Ottoman advance.
The monument is executed in bronz and was built in 1968, being a creation of  the sculptor from Bucharest, Oscar Han.
After the Dacian-Roman wars from the years 101-106 AD, concluded by the victory of  the Roman army led by Emperor Trajan and the conquest of Dacia, the area of the present town did not become part of the new province created. Emperor Trajan fortified the eastern border of Dacia on the line of Olt river, building the known Limes Alutanus , consisting of forts and cities on both sides of the Olt River, from Danube (Islaz area today) up in the mountains Boiţa. Historian Procopius of Caesarea shows Traian as the founder of the city Turris, identified by some historians with Turnu Magurele. This assertion of the ancient historian is not confirmed, the city of Turnu dating from a later era. Turnu  is remembered between the years 1393-1394 by the city of the same name built by Mircea the Elder at the confluence with the Danube with River Olt (named after the shape of the city). In 1417 the city came under Turkish domination and was transformed along with a security zone (established in depth with a rage of 15 km from the city) in Turnu Raia. Following the Russo-Turkish War in1828-1829 (by the peace treaty of Adrianople in 1829) it was established that Raia Turnu be abandoned by Turkish and returned to Romanian Land. The formal establishment of the city Turnu, the current Turnu Magurele(was named like this to distinguish itself from Drobeta Turnu Severin and Turnu Rosu) was held on February 27, 1836 during the reign of Alexandru Ghica. The city plan was developed by German engineer Karl Zohl under the form of two circles almost touching the inside with three long boulevards formed one on the common diameter of the two circles and two of them on two strings tangent outside the small circle, streets starting like ray in form of semicircles inside of the big circle, and so setting the streets, squares, places to own buildings and places of house area.
Turnu Magurele has in its administrative componence the two old neighborhoods of the settlement, Magurele and Odaia, and also the new neighborhood Taberei (popularly known as "Catanga" because the raisingof  this neighborhood began in 1960 when in Africa, more precisely in province Katanga in Zaire, was in full swing armed conflict particularly wild).


