The Church „ Adormirea Maicii Domnului” located in the central area is the most spacious of churches Caracal. Acording to the entrance inscription, was „built from the foundation in 1839, was radicaly restored and consecrated in May 27th (on the Ascension) 1910, in  XLIV year of the glorious reign of M.S. Romanian King Carol I and in the second year of hierarchy of P.S. Bishop of Râmnic Noul Severin D. D. Ghenadie.
Necessary fund was given by parishioners and by Caracal City Hall, City Council of Romanaţi, by decesed Şerban Jianu, C. Poroineanu, D. Guran, Dincă Popescu,  I. Atanasiu and by G. Roşca-Balş.“
Portraits of some of these dressed in rich costumes are present on the walls of the porch, executed in oil by the skillful hand of a painter whose name remains unknown. In the space of the church porch until the rehabilitation in 1910, when the church was restored and reconsecrated, there were covered with stone slabs graves of those who were Costache Jianu-butler, Amza Iancu-butler and Jianu-Jianu-şetrar. On the occasion of repairs the slab sof the tombs of Costache and Amza were embedded into the wall of the facade of either side of the entry porch and that of Iancu Jianu in the south wall of the church.
True architectural monument, the church has a cross form being built in Greek style, has three towers and the ornaments are inspired by Renaissance. The church has in front a porch with tall columns supporting the arches of a trilobite and is guarded on both sides by two towers built between 1908-1910. Exterior decoration is simple, consisting of a median belt surrounding the church and the cornice with elements in geometric style under the dome roof. The windows are narrow, very high and fitted with stained glass trapped in metal frames. On the place in front of the church existed until 1910 a high tower, known as the clock's Tower because in it there was a big clock with three quadrants. 
The original painting of the church has not been preserved, being covered during repairs in 1910.  This was restored between the years 1947-1948, having a modernist orientation with some Byzantine style inclinations, by painter Tabacu. A special mention needs to be made regarding the interior furniture, made between 1907-1910 by artist  Stefan Malciu from Olt, famous in woodworking art. The iconostasis made of oak is a true work of art, and for the ornaments of pews, arm chairs, frames of silver framed icons, the artist used motifs from folk art wood workers.
Most of the treasures in the church are donation from the family of Jienilor bearing various inscriptions in Cyrillic alphabet in the first half of the nineteenth century, naming the founders and donors.  
In 2006, by the initiative of the Association of Former Political Prisoners, a subsidiary in Olt county, a memorila cross was built in the churchyard. 











