Built between 1890-1893 by a merchant from Caracal, Florea Niculescu, known and appreciated in that epoch, after architect Julius Mariani's plans, with the support of engineer Ernest Gesner.
Through years 1910-1911, Florea Niculescu went bankrupt and the house becomes the property of Urban Credit Bank.
In 1912, great Romanian diplomat Nicolae Titulescu became deputy of Romanaţi county - today part of Olt county -from the part of Conservative Democratic Party, led by Take IonescuTo be elected in this college, Titulescu had to have a home here. On the advice of local party leader, Paul Brătăşanu who guessed the career of diplomat and politician of his young colleague, Titulescu has acquired in 1910 a house in the town of Caracal (Olt), then the county seat Romanaţi. 
According of the plate fixed to a wall in one side of the house, it is seen that the house belonged to the great diplomat for 14 years, from 1910 to 1924. After leaving Caracal and Romanaţi, Titulescu being called in other important functions, the house is owned by institutor Tudoran Petre, until 1930, when it was purchased by the former high school for girls and converted into boarding. Since 1948, it was the residence of the Children House of Caracal and now here works Local Employment Agency. Architect Iulius Mariani conceived it in late Baroque style, with predominance of asymmetry in exterior ornamentation and in arrangement of buildings. Oriented toward the east, the house has two wings, with two facades that have a rich ornamentation, windows having frames and frontispieces. In the northeast corner, is a small porch enclosed with tinted glass, trapped in grid iron with geometric decorations. If the exterior retains its original shape, the interior has suffered changes on the ceiling, where the painting was covered with plaster or paint. Nicolae Titulescu, who lived from 1882-1941, was a diplomat, jurist, teacher and one of the greatest Romanian politicians being Minister for Foreign Affairs, repeatedly. Also, Titulescu was president of the League of Nations (1930 and 1931) and member of the Romanian Academy. In November 1912, Titulescu enroll himself among the candidates for the Chamber of Deputies in the Romanaţi county Court. Prefecture submitted in Bucharest on November 5, 1912, the candidates list for college Chamber I, where, from behalf of the Conservative Democratic Party, appeared Titulescu and Paul Brătăşanu, and from the Liberal Party - Demetrius Şuculescu and Theodor Popescu. On November 8, Titulescu is elected deputy in the new Parliament.



