The activity of Corabia's Town Hall is conducted within the Administrative Palace, being one of the buildings listed as historic monuments of Olt County. The construction was initiated in 1899 and completed during the mandate of Dumitru Buzdun. The work was coordinated by the architect Clement Segall.
The establishment of Corabia town was done because of economic necessities. Even in the first official steps made in this direction (Petition of the 37 traders from Caracal, June 24 / July 6, 1859, addressed to Prince Alexandru Ioan Cuza), it was alleged that this project, was based on the difficulties faced by the trade district due to the enclosures exercised by one of the great landowners of the county, Gh. Bibescu, owner of scaffolding from Islaz, where agricultural products were loaded on the vessels that were operating on the Danube.
In the petition addressed to the ruler, traders showed that scaffold from Islaz was not the best point for the development of trade, being located in the extreme of the district, the owner fixing it in that place to gain unfair income. Thus, the petitioners were proposing the highly advantageous position of the village Corabia, owned by the Bistrița monastery and asked permission to form a free city in that place, with port, where to redeem 1,000 acres onto which they will build the future houses.
Considering the above arguments of the merchants from Caracal, based, the ruler approves the request.
After a series of disagreements between the municipality and the petitioners, finally, in 1862 is formed a committee consisting of the Superintendent of bridges and members of the cities Craiova, Caracal and Turnu Magurele, who chooses the place where the port city Corabia will be formed, and the dream of româneţeni traders is fulfilled in 1871, when Prince Charles promulgates the Law on founding the town Corabia on November 30th / December 11th. The law confers an area of 500 pogons, divided into three sections, which would be sold in small lots of public land being given at no charge. The state also reserves on the Danube shore a stretch of 40 fathoms in width for the construction of quays and other annexes of the future port.
To the new town will also join commune Dasova, whose hearth will be moved on the Danube shore and some of its inhabitants would be granted houses places in the northern side of the town, forming the neighborhood Valea Seacă. Later, in 1880, when the hamlet of Corabia Veche, which belonged, until then to Celei commune, will join the new locality, by the Royal Decree of April 6th, 1881,  Corabia will be declared urban commune. So, after 22 years from the first steps, Corabia became a town, rejoicing in the coming years of a rapid development. In the twentieth century, to the city will be reassigned the villages of Vârtop (which belonged to the commune Celei), Siliştioara (commune Garcov) and Tudor Vladimirescu, which was founded in 1896 on the estate of Vişina Veche commune.


