The parish church "Saint Nicholas" from Giuvărăşti village is founded by George Giuvara in 1857. As mentioned in the inscription, the building was restored in 1962, at which time the painting was restored. 
Greek Iamandi Giuvara was cupbearer to the royal court and had the opportunity to collect a lot of gold, and at one time to ask the Lord the estate in exchange for gold which the Lord needed to pay as tribute to the Porte. Thus Iamandi Giuvara achieves the Giuvărăşti estate where he built a mansion whose ruins have lasted until 1923. The mansion was located on the site containing the valleys of the village, place called even today "La Curte". 
Becoming rich, Iamandi rises to the rank of boyar and begins to mix in politics with the Turks, which displeases Voda who, then, seeks to eliminate it. Iamandi finds out and leaves these places marching to Moldova, but in the commune Cozia is caught and taken to Bugaria where at Silistra is hanged along with his wife and two older boys. The youngest child, the third one is taken by Turks and becomes officer in Turkish army.
From Iamandi Giuvara the estate , came into the possession of a former albanian named Polcovnicul and thencomes into possesion of Iamandi's brother, Gheorghe Giuvara who builds the church in 1857, church that had on it the inscription with the name Gheorghe Giuvara. After his death, his descendants sold the estate  in 1887 to Princess Ecaterina Plagina who possessed it by her leaseholders until 1920 when the estate was expropriated and the land given to peasants in the commune Giuvărăşti. The last, known, landholder was Radu Ivănescu from Corabia. The part of the village known as the Bottom of Sturdy exists from 1883 as a separate village having 86 households and is administered by a governor from where his name comes. Finally the estate Giuvărăşti gets into possesion of the monastery Hotarani next to Caracal. By the law secularization monastic wealths in 1863 the estate is expropriated and in 1864 and the land was given to the peasants from Giuvărăşti. The first school was founded in 1890 in a private house wherein dwelleth later Iancu Giuvărăşteanu, a son of one of the family Giuvara .





