The church "Saint Nicholas" from Resca village, was built in 1781, by Ilinca Dobrosloveanca Setrăreasa, former metochion of the Bistrita Monastery. In 1784 the founder of the Church has dedicated it, along with its possessions to Bishopric of Ramnicu, the church being known in history as the hermitage Recica and became metochion of the Holy Bishopric, this thing being reinforced by the 1785 Decree given by Prince Alexander Ypsilanti. After the secularization of monastic possessions the hermitage becomes the parish church of the Parish Reşca from the Romanati county.
In 1924, repairs were made to strengthen the walls and the biggest steeple was rebuilt. In the years 1952, 1972, 1979 repairs were made on exterior and to the roof. The  painting was restored in 1982.
The arrangement of inner courtyard and other repairs were made also between the years 1987-2003. The inscription of the place of worship mentions that, „In 2004, with the blessing of P.S. Gherasim, Bishop of Râmnic and with approval of Directorate for Monuments, Cults and Culture - Olt,  were started the works of restoration for the old painting and for the new painting in the nave and in the porch, also.“
Resca village was a Roman settlement located on the right bank of the river Olt.
Its beginnings must be linked to the presence of a Roman garrison. Around the civil nucleus attached to the fortification was born, later, the Roman city. Archaeological excavations have revealed an enclosure wall, which housed the Roman downtown area.
A second precinct, bigger, which included the initial one, was built in year 248 by order of Emperor Philip the Arab, following the rejection of the invasion of Carps.
At Romula were identified several necropolises. Among the military units that have stationed here, until the rise of the village to the rank of town, are remembered cohors I Flavia Commagenorum and numerus Surorum Sagittariorum. Along with the receiving the rank of town units were transferred, probably, in one of the the fortifications on river Olt. Roman city Romula includes a number of buildings preserved in different conditions, such as: walls of hewn stone, brick walls, the remains of a large building, the canal with the roman bridge, gates of the western, north and south of the city, the south tide, the thermals of the city, the remains of some buildings and construction, the city curia etc.









