The history of the only wooden church in Slatina starts only in 2000 when, through the donation of Ioan Popescu Labă, was obtained the land on which is today the place of worship. In the same year, His Grace Bishop Gerasimos of Râmnic placed the cornerstone, and on November 1st, 2001 proceeded to the establishment of the new parish, which was to receive the patronage of "Birth of the Virgin" and "Descent of the Holy Soul"  and as parisher being appointed priest Alexandru Constantin from Slatina.
Professor Octavian Ciocşan specialist restorer, proposed, then the construction of the wooden church in Maramures style.
The first excavation for the foundation started in June 2001. In order to serve, first was built the summer altar, and the first Mass being celebrated on September 14th, 2002 and in 2004 on Holy Easter was commited liturgy, for the first time, in the church's porch , since it was still under construction.
The iconostasis, carved in oak, was executed by master Nicolae Oproiu of Sălătruc-Arges in 2005, and the painting of icons on the iconostasis belongs to Priest Marian Stan from the Parish of Săltăneşti.
The walls of the church were made of pine wood, shingle roof and the steeple bell was fitted with slender conical helmet.
On November 6th, 2006 Bishop Gherasim, surrounded by a selected group of priests, consecrated the church. However, the works have also continued in 2007, when the interior of the church was insulated and plated with plasterboard and in 2009-2010 master painter Hari Bungiu executed the painting.
Birth of the Virgin is one of the Great Feasts of the Orthodox Church, celebrated on 8 September.
Virgin Mary was born of aged parents aged, which had no child before, named Joachim and Anne, in answer to their prayers. 
Orthodox Christians do not profess the Roman Catholic doctrine of the Immaculate Conception of Mary, which implies that Mary was preserved from original sin in which we all bear as a result of lineage from Adam and Eve, thus anticipating the birth of Christ, the sinless One. The Orthodox Church believes, of course, that Mary received the original sin, being conceived in the same way as the entire humanity was, and so She needed the salvation as we did. The Orthodox faith does not treat the subject very clear, retaining only the confession that Mary had received the original sin and that She became Pure at the moment of Annunciation.



