The church of Saints Constantine and Helena  was built in 1793, founded by Treti Logofătul, Constantin Răţescu and Nicolae Mumuianu being registred in the list of historic monuments in Olt county. The most important changes made to the abode were focused on the repair and repainting in 1899 and the repairs in1949.
The Orthodox Church celebrates, on May 21st the Saints Constantine and his mother, Helena. Constantine the Great was born in the town of  Naissus (Nis, Serbia) around 274. He became sovereign of the entire Roman Empire after the defeat of Maxentius and Licinius. According to testimonies of Eusebius and Lactantius, on the eve of battle with Maxentius, Constantine saw in the sky during day time, at noon, a cross above the bright sun with the inscription: "In Hoc Signo Vinces" (by this sign you will conquer). At night, during sleep, Christ reveals Himself to Constantine, asking him to put the sign of the Cross on the flags of the soldiers. Giving heed to this command received in dream, he comes out victorious in the battle with Maxentius.
 The Triumphal Arch of Constantine, which is kept in Rome, bears the inscription: "Instinctu divinitatis" = "by divine inspiration", which uncovers how was won the victory over Maxentius.
The greatest achievement of the Emperor Constantine was the Edict of Milan (313), through which Christianity comes to be recognized by the state. But, it will become a state religion in the time of Theodosius the Great (379-395). After the Edict of 313 king exempts the Church from taxes, grants the right to receive donations and gives bishops the right to judge those who do not want to be judged by state laws. Will remove of the penal laws the penalties that were contrary to the spirit of Christianity, such as crucifixion, crushing legs, stigmatization (burning with hot iron).
Emperor Constantine convened the first ecumenical council at Nicaea (325), where after long debates, the doctrine of Arius was condemned and was adopted the formula that God's Son is of one essence with the Father and thus from eternity with Him. At the synod were, also made the first seven articles of the Symbol of Faith (Creed), was fixed the date of Easter (the first Sunday after the  full moon, after the vernal equinox) and were given 20 canons on ecclesiastical discipline.
Saint Constantine the Great was baptized on his death bed by Bishop Eusebius of Nicomedia. He died shortly afterwards (337) in Nicomedia and was buried in the Church of the Holy Apostles in Constantinople, founded by him.
Flavia Iulia Helena was born in the province of Bithynia. In the year 293, the Roman general Constantius Chlorus, at the behest of Emperor Diocletian, divorces Empress Helena. This one does not remarry, lives away from the public eye, but close to his son. She managed to discover on the hill of Calvary the cross onto which Christ was crucified. According to tradition, after the excavations were found three crosses. To identify the cross on which Christ was crucified, they touched with the three crosses a dead person. This one came to life when the Cross of the Lord touched him. On September 14th, 326, Bishop Macarius I of Jerusalem took the cross and erected it in front of the crowd. The day of September 14th has become the Feast of Exaltation of the Cross in the Christian calendar.

