The wooden church was built on the current site by the yeomen of the former village of Ştefăneşti between 1765-1771 and is dedicated to "Assumption of the Virgin". This is one of the most iconic wooden churches from south of the Carpathians.
It distinguishes itself in a characteristic ensemble of the area, consisting of wooden gate and fence, and "Messiah settings for alms on celebrations" within the enclosure.
Remarkable are large size of the abode, rich sculpted decoration, both exterior and interior, and the signatures of the craftsman and founders along with the datings from the entrance wall.
The most significant is the porch, that excels through its magnitude also, and by the diversity and richness of sculpted motifs, a real highlight in the art of porches of the wooden churches from south of the Carpathians.
Inside a few sculptures stand out stark, especially the rope on the portal of the nave and the two console-horses which support the beam from under the sky dome.
The foot of the altar table is hollowed out of a tree trunk in a strong relief, caracterictic to this place. The iconostasis and the wall between the porch and the nave preserves the beautiful icons and painted friezes, together with the foothills of icons and decorative frames.
The beginning of this church in the former village of freeholders, Ştefăneşti, is fixed by a dating according to Byzantine era on the wall at the entry into the church porch, on the right: „year 7279 7274”, meaning the year 1770/1771 next to that 1765/1766. On a hand cross from the inventory of the church, it is found the first year: „7279 Ene”. Ene is founder of the church, according to another inscriptions on the same wall at the entrance, but on the left of the door: "Ene titoru" and "Ene Niţu".
Next to this one is the name of the craftsman "Stan meșteru". Both are accompanied remarkably by specific identification marks, the founder by the bust with arms extended and the craftsman by two signs of master.
Should be noted that the note of the founder, "Ene titoru" next to his sign with open arms, appear written backwards, as if whoever wrote it on the wall has stamped it first from a piece of paper turned over. This unusual form of scrap can be clearly read from right to left.
Assumption of the Virgin is the feast day in memory of the data Virgin Mary died. It is celebrated by Orthodox and Catholics each year on August 15th. This celebration is popularly known as Uspenia (Slavic term) or St. Mary.


