The parish church "Saint Gregory and Saint Haralambos Decapolite" was built in 1863. It had as founders the believers and the inhabitants of of this parish, being helped by the family Constantin Popescu.
The inscription has been erased under the pretext that the wall cracked over it, showed by some documents found on the premises. Same source show that the church was built of brick, cross-shaped, covered with tin, the windows being made of iron. Throughout time,the place of worship has been repaired several times: in 1934, was made the new tower and was covered with new tin; after the earthquake in March 1977, when the vaults and the iconostasis were destroyed, were executed restoration and rebuilding of all that was destroyed; between 1980-1982, it was restored and was again painted the whole church; In 1983, a bell tower was built of reinforced concrete and bought a new bronze bell of 250 kg; between 2000 and 2008 were carried out repairs and other exterior finishes.
Grojdibodu is a commune in Olt County, Oltenia egion, Romania, composed of villages Grojdibodu and Hotaru. Within the commune perimeter was set up the largest solar park in the country with a capacity of 9.93 MW. According to the census conducted in 2011, Grojdibodu village population amounts to 2,857 inhabitants, decreasing from the previous census in 2002, when it had registered 3,338 inhabitants. Most inhabitants are Romanian (97.09%). For the 2.56% of the population, ethnicity is not known. Regarding the religion apartenence, most people are Orthodox (97.44%). For the 2.56% of the population is not known the confessional belonging. One of the most important personalities of the village is Vintilă Nicu (b. 1946), Romanian writer, university professor, lawyer, deputy of the Romanian Parliament [1992-1996]. He published as sole author a number of 16 books  about legal profession (university courses, juridical monographies ); 7 books about legal specialty in collaboration with Maria Sofia Pagarin, lect. univ. dr. (his daughter); 26 books in legal specialty group of authors; 18 books of artistic literature (poetry, aphorisms, epigrams, monographs). Permanent collaborator of the magazine Romanian Writing in Craiova and other literary or legal newspapers and magazines in Romania. As a collaborator of these magazines he published essays, literary chronicles and prefaced many literature books. He received many appreciative literary chronicles in the literary magazines:  Scrisul românesc, Ramuri, Lamura, Mozaicul, Rațiunea, Mesagerul Olteniei, Ecoul, Cenaclul, Hue (Vidin), Glasul Oltului (Slatina) etc.







