The church is placed on the left bank of the river Olteţ and was built in 1783, it is one of the most beautiful and interesting architectural construction in Oltenia. Local tradition says that Popa Matei Ghinescu ot.. Cioroi, the founder,, discovered in the waters of the river Olteţ an iron box filled with gold coins and with it they built the church. The construction began in 1783 and was completed in 1796, as shown in the inscription above the entrance: “ This holy and divine monastery was made from foundation by   Popa Matei Ghinescu ot. Cioroi, sin Dumitru Ghinescu, dedicated to the great princes Michael and Gabriel and to all  holy angels in the days of enlightened ruler Ion Alexandru Ipsilante Voda, and they started on July, on days 31, year 1783,  and was adorned with all His Holiness expense, as is seen worked and ended in 1796 ".
The building is of brick, built in the shape of clubs. The painting is executed in Byzantine style and was made by Oprea the Painter ot Craiova. Outside, on the south wall of the narthex, it is written with black paint, the name of the painter Oprea  and the year,1796, when the construction was finished. The Church has in front an open porch with four free columns and two employed columns. The arches of the columns are clubs. The narthex is separated from the nave by a first wall of one meter thick, with a narrow and high entrance close up to the dome, with openings in the lateral sides of the entrance, in order to look towards the altar. To the right is a pinnacle shaped window. The nave has architectonical features, two pinnacle shaped windows, and two larger windows and columns in the first wall from the narthex. The iconostasis is also made by thick wall as the rest of the building and is made from columns. At first was a fortified monastery. In the narthex, worked in fresco, are seen the faces of the founders dressed in vintage Boyar costumes, holding the church in their hands. The church had a elegant steeple and a shingle roof, today it has a rebuilt tower and the roof is of tin. The right of the narthex, near the staircase that climbs to the steeple is portrayed Oprea the painter and his disciple Manole. The iconostasis  retains the old Byzantine painting. The founders are: on the right, priest Matei sin Dumitru Ghinescu ot satu Cioroiu, Dumitru deacon, nephew, has in front of him a child Dumitrana. On the left, priestess Ioana with a little girl in front who has a flower in her right hand. On the south wall, Stana deaconess, Constantin arm priest , Crăstina, Constandin confessor priest ot Fălcoi. North wall priest Radu , arm priestess, Radu nephew of Dumitru Ghenescu father of the priest, Rada sin ego, lady Dumitrana, master Alexander Farfareanu, vel crucearu. On the outer walls in small niches are biblical scenes. On the southern exterior wall is written, teacher Oprea Painter ot Craiova, 1796. The church was built in the late eighteenth - 1783 and finished by priest Matei Ghinescu in 1796.




