Still in the early Christian period along the river Suha Reka in Dobrogea arises a caved monasteries colony.
It is located near the fortresses of antiquity near villages Golesh, Silistra, Balik and Onogour village (municipality of Tervel) in the border areas between the municipality Dobrichka and Tervel. Colonia stretches along 40 km of the dry river valley, the southernmost point being in Hitovo village (municipality Dobrichka) and the north - in Golesh village (municipality Kaynardja). As a center of monastic life are accepted the caved large monastery, known as Gyaur Evleri, near Kragulevo village (village Dobrichka) and group of the fortress caved monasteries to Balik village. To the south and north of the this are located its subsidiaries, cells and churches.
Supposedly, in this case, it is about some of the oldest caved monasteries in Bulgaria and not only the Balkans, but in Europe. Their early refers to V-VI centuries and their end - the early century XI. The latest data are suggested by some designs and signs (especially in IYI sign around his cave monastery Hitovo). This assumption is confirmed by the findings of ancient fragments of old Bulgarian dishes in the late eleventh century to the early century XI during excavations in the cave complex "Gyaur Evleri".
Caved Monastery Cave shrine is situated between Dobrich and Silistra. Known as Sandakli Maariv. In the past, there was a stream, today called Suhata reka. It is believed that the monastery is dating from 5-6 and the cave itself was used for burials. In it can be seen altar, ossuary and burial chambers.
Since the time of early Christianity, in 5-6 centuries along dry river today Suhata reka, appears a remarkable colony of monasteries from the era of early Christianity, in late antiquity and early Byzantium. And maybe they seem some of the oldest caved monasteries not only in Bulgaria, the Balkans but in Europe, because we have no reliable evidence that the beginning of construction of the caved monasteries from this county can be referred to 5th century - early 6th century. This colony of caved monasteries, with exterior and interior completely preserved, as they had in late antiquity, is situated on the river Suhata reka.

