Drama Theatre "Dragomir Asenov" is a cultural center in Montana. The theater was founded in 1962 (the first show is "in each evening of Autumn" by Ivan Peychev). Named Dragomir Asenov, after the name of the great playwright, born in Montana.
Information about the first presentation of the theater are from Kutlovitsa village, in the late 19th and the early 20th century. In these first attempts of amateur, the actors on stage were ordinary teachers and officials. The theatre is professional organized, for the first time, in Mihailovgrad; talking about this in the summer of 1962. By decision of the County Committee of the Communist Party of the city, is invited Ivan Atanasov having the task to organize the creative and technical personnel, to create the dramatic theater and therefore, it is launched the Mihaylovgrad National Theatre. The first play is presented by the newly established theater was "Every autumn evening" by Ivan Peytchev with the participation of Vasil Lukanov and Mihail Mihailov's scenography. The theater has been modified constantly, from a municipal theater to state theatre and once again municipal, until 1969. Mihaylovgrad Theatre, along with other theaters in the province, has became public.
 Since 1982 the theater was named after the playwright born in Montana, Dragomir Asenov (Nissim Jacques Melamed). Over the years, the theater has worked with a number of high-profile names who have contributed to its development. Among the most important titles in the history of theater: " When thunder strikes " PK Yavorov (1974 and 2001), "Vrazhalets" Sf Kostov (1972 and 1994), "January" (1982) și " The disorders " (1996) by writer Jordan, "Father" by August Strindberg (1995), " Iron candlestick" by Dimitar Talev (1971 and 1996), "The daughter" by George Karaslavov (1987)," Shishman " by Kamen Zidarov (1980), well as many other classic and modern titles of Bulgarian and foreign authors. The theater has toured in almost all villages in the region and in several cities in Bulgaria. It collaborates with theaters in the western suburbs - Serbia (Pirot, Nis), musical theater in the city of Zhitomir - Ukraine, the theater in the city of Banska Bystrica - Slovak Republic.
Currently, the theater has achieved a minimum of four titles per season for the first time and submits an annual report of 40 -50 house productions performances, co-productions with other theaters, touring bands from other cities, concerts and more.
The theater has one main hall (584 seats) and two chamber music halls. Are also organized several theater schools.
Montana Drama Theatre hosts many exhibitions, concerts and performances. In the theater were performed annually a minimum of 4 premiere performances.
Drama Theatre Montana has a school theater. The school was founded in 2000 as studios for children at the Montana Theatre. Four years later it was renamed School of Theatre for Children and Adolescents. With the children from school has worked Prof. D. Yanbastiev. - Professor of Film Arts. The graduates of the school are the pupils from the College Theatre Luben Groys, University of Plovdiv, Southwestern - Blagoevgrad and Theatre Academy.
The music genre of the theater is from classic theater to contemporary theater.

