Located between the villages of Upper and Dolna Lukes (2km northwest of the village Lunca de Sus, on the right bank of the river Prevalska Augusta) in Chiprovtzi part of Stara Planina, in the homonymous park. Formed in gray limestone formations from Lower Cretaceous (Aptian). It was declared a landmark, with a total area of 0.5 hectares. The cave is famous for its many white crystalline formations and underground pools, but has not been studied. It is preserved to avoid destruction and plunder.
In case you are coming from Sofia, the shortest way is a deviation from the route to Petrokhan Montana, shortly after Berkovitz. Here the main road goes right. Then crosses the the railroad and goes left immediately after the turn. A plaque points to the Lopushanski monastery. From now on follow the road to Belogradchik. Reach the Village Luke after leaving Chiprovci. Do not enter the village (is at 1 km on the left) and keep going. After two kilometers past the village at 3 km ahead to the right of the road there is a large parking space that can hold 5-6 cars. The car must be left there. The walking continues on asphalt, go to the left and cross the river. Then, the trail climbs steeply up the cliffs. The cave is about 50 meters above the river.
After a 80 meter entrance of 8-9m width and 4-7m tall, of which half opens a entrance beneath and divides the cave on South and West. The southern branch has a length of 155m and a width from start to finish, from 35m to 85m with an average height of 2.5 meters, longitudinally and transversely devided by massive stone columns that shape the maze. The southern branch is almost 200m long, and leads to the largest room with the dimensions of 50 x 30 x 24 m. The formations are mainly stalagmites and slag ponds. There are thick deposits of clay on the bottom of the whole cave and water dripping.
The cave has beautiful images, but it represents a large room with large columns. Is well worth visiting anytime. On the left is a low gallery with very thin stalactites, through which you must pass very carefully. Given that it is easily accessible, the cave is quite scratched, but it has beautiful places. It is accessible to everyone. You just need to be careful not dropped into some pit, made for hunting. The entrance can take between 20 minutes and 4 hours, depending if you want to get dragged into the gallery with stalactites. Leaves a beautiful overall impression without being compared to the most beautiful caves. 

