The community center was founded in 1869 and it is the oldest cultural institution from the city of Vratsa. The library Chitalishte has 126 thousand volumes of literature, and now the center develops serious activities of information exchange under the form of seminaries, trainings, weekly radio programs, appearance in the local and national televisions, as well as live, with 2300 readers.
The Community Center the “Development” – Vratsa was founded in 1869 by the patriotic team commanded by the teachers Simeon Podbalkanskim, Duty Ankov, Nikolcho Krastenyakov, Krusty Novkirishki and others and it is the oldest cultural institution from the city. From here derived all the professional cultural institutions from Vratsa – the Dramatic Theatre, the Philharmonic, the historical museum, the art gallery.
The modern building for the library was built in the period 1938 – 1941 and it was projected by the architecture office Tsolov and Vassilev Sofiya. For the building the auction was won by a team composed by: Arch. Peter Dogramadzhiev and the engineers Konstantin Yanakiev and Nicolas Novoselski from Vratsa. The building has been declared a cultural monument.
Now, the Community Center the “Development” – Vratsa by his unities and his teams, with the highly qualified personnel and a large range of well maintained facilities, develops reach and varied activities.
I.the library of the community center has 126 thousand of literature volumes in the following departments:
The adult department;
The children department;
The separate ensemble of arrangement and catalogues;
The reference room and the bibliographic department;
The head office of the “Mladost” library.
II.the United arts school for Children has three sections:
The music school, for studying the piano, the violin, the guitar and the accordion;
The ballet school, where it is studied the classical and the modern ballet;
The language school – with teaching in English.
III.The fanfare;
IV.The artistic activities of amateurs are executed by:
The representative ensemble for Popular Songs and Dances “Vratitsa Burgas”;
The mixed quire “Orpheum”;
The quartet for old songs “Lotus”.

