Inscribed on the impressive monument in the obelisk of Botev with the phrase “He will not die”. A great votive stone cross, placed here after the Liberation for marking the historical and the holy place, was also conserved.
At 5 kilometers north – west from the center of the historian city Kozloduy, on the 17th of May 1876 there docked the Austrian Steam Vessel “Radetzky” and “two hundred of Bulgarian heroes under the domination of Hristo Botev” who swore “freedom or death” and went to “help their insurgent brothers”. The first gun fire of Botev was at a frontier post from the proximity where there were a few soldiers who ran and quickly dispersed. Therefore it was discovered a “new page for Bulgaria”, as it was named after the liberation of Kozloduy and a volunteer put at the shore the first memorial sign – a tall wooden cross.
In 1885, because of the help of the detachment of Hristo Botev, the population and Nicolas Obretenov and Mladen Pavlov (the professor from Kozloduy) marked this historical place which with a sculpture over which it was spread the dust of time, sculpted from the beginning of the century, “Hristo Botev – on the beach from Kozloduyp”, about which it was written in 1904 with the purpose of building a “monument for the great son of Bulgaria”. The People’s Voice was raised again in June 1939 at the initiative of the organizing committees in Vratsa and Kozlodui and then at the Direction the “Water Message” was a contest for building again the monument.
The most important of the 12 registered works the judge appreciated as being the project of the sculptor Ștefan Peychev. The population invested more work of volunteering in the material provision and for building the monument. Kozlodui is among the first cities from the country which celebrated the fight of Botev and of his detachment in 1885, and since then it hosted the annual traditional festivities. In 1905, the Social Democratic Party (for example) organized for the first time on the border of the Beach Kozlodui a historical event which elevated our gratitude. In the Botev Park, among the spacious and hospitable ones, there is a monumental obelisk of 20 meters, a monument built of concrete and the construction is covered up with white stones from Vratsa. On the face there are sculpted the profile commanders. The monument is distinguished by the simplified lines, signifying the environment. In any moment of the parallel year with the river Krushovski there are painted with green on the trees, with the capital letters “H B”. The bench dissolved the Hotel “Radetzky”, with 100 accomodation places. Hereinafter it offers a shelter the cabin from the Beach Kozloduy which has 68 accommodation places, kitchen and a dining room.
In the area of the park and of the city’s stadium for ever it is docked the re-conditioned the Steam Vessel “Radetzky”. Built in 1966, with the working force and with resources from the volunteers, after a major re-construction it now became an attractive memorial museum. The government put at the disposition of the pilgrims a modern exhibit which recreates history, the path of Botev’s fight and which represents the appreciation of the people for the sacrifice of the revolutionary poet. The road from the “White and quiet river” to the “Vratsa Mountain” is majestic remade on a distance of 120 kilometers in every year, starting with the 27th of May until the 2nd of June being a national and international tourist path, the marching “behind the steps of Botev”. All of us admire this place in which there was kept the memory of the courageous and of the romantic Botev. The national touristic place is visited annually by over 150.000 tourists from the country and from abroad. From the Kozlodui Beach there can be reached from both the directions to the ships. At 13 kilometers from the city there is the intersection in which there are gathered the asphalted roads from Vratsa, Oryahovo and Mihailovgrad. The city is also connected with the road towards Lom and Vidin. The closest railway station is Misia, which is situated at 26 kilometers with a thin gauge line Cherven bryag – Oryahovo. It is maintained a regular bus city line which leads from the Botev Park, and at the west from the Botev Park there can be arrived at the marked path, where there are visible traces of the historical tree Kozloduy. At 5 kilometers from the center of the city it remained this idyllically corner in which in the torrid afternoon from the 17th of May 1876 there stopped for a mouth of water, the rebels. 

