Starting with the year 1958, at the initiative of the artists from the city, as a branch of the History Museum – Pleven, is accommodated in a space specially built, the Art gallery “Ilia Beshkov” in 1978, on the blvd. “Skobelev” no. 1.
The permanent exhibit of the Art Gallery “Ilia Beshkov” offers an idea upon the principal stages and tendencies in the Bulgarian art from the end of the 19th century until the years 70 of the 20th century. It was started even in the period of post – liberation, with the names of the pioneers Nikolai Pavlovich, Anton MITOV and Ivan Markvichka, and it is passed through one of the most known masters of the brush: Stefan Ivanov, Orphan Wanderer, Vladimir Dimitrov – the commander, Dechko Uzunov, Vasil Barakovo Bencho Obreshkov, Ilia Petrov, Nenko balcanic, Stoyan Venev, Kiril Țonev Boris Ivanov, Zlatyu Boyadzhiev, Petrov Kiril, Vera Nedkova, Slavka Deneva, Ivan Nenov, Nayden Petkov and it is reached to remarkable names from the Bulgarian contemporary painting, whose enumeration would occupy to much space.
In this refined ensemble there are presented the compositions of the authors whose work represents the new Bulgarian sculptor: Ivan Lazarov, Petar Balabanov, Marko Markov. A special attention is given to the creative patrimony of one of the most known authors from Pleven, the sculptor Angel Spasov (1884 – 1974) whose complete work can only be seen in the Art Gallery “Ilia Beshkov”.
A special attention within the exhibit is dedicated to the owner of the gallery, the great Bulgarian artist Ilia Beshkov (1901 – 1958). The series of bright compositions allows you to see it the most vivid characteristic of its work. The acuity, the improvising genius and the durable thematic relevance of this distinguished master, demonstrates the correctitude of his appreciation as being one of the tips of the plastic Bulgarian culture in the 20th century.
Today the shop’s gallery owns more than 1200 of his works – the biggest and the most important collection from the National Art Museum.
The general aspect of the gallery isn’t limited at the permanent exhibit. Starting with 1958 it enriches and manages to conserve and to promote his funds, divided in sections “Painting”, “Graphics”, “Sculpture”, “Renaissance Icons”, “Ilie Beshkov”, the “Spasov Angel” and “Collections”.
Built on a surface of 2500 square meters, the gallery “Ilia Beshkov” is presented within the artistic forums: “The national biannual of small shapes in the artistic art – Pleven”, the “International photo – biannual” Phodar, the “National Contest” Allianz Bulgaria, the international workshop “Kaylaka”, the art saloons, the chamber concerts, the recitals, the conferences and the symposiums.
The Art Gallery “Ilia Beshkov” is an institution with a distinguished and memorable presence in the cultural life of Central and Northern Bulgaria; it is a cultural and regional leader center, with an efficacious cooperation with the Ministry of Culture from Bulgaria, the Union of Plastic Artists from Bulgaria, the National Art Gallery and with similar institutions from the country.

